
“Thank you so much. It’s so great to be here in Iowa. We’re here
just thawing out. Todd and I and a couple of our friends here from
Alaska, lending our support for the next president of our great
United States of America, Donald J. Trump.

Mr. Trump, you’re right, look back there in the press box. Heads
are spinning, media heads are spinning. This is going to be so much
fun.

Are you ready to make America great again? We all have a part in
this. We all have a responsibility.  Looking around at all of you;
you hard-working Iowa families, you farm families and teachers and
teamsters and cops and cooks; you rockin’ rollers and holy rollers!
All of you who work so hard, you full-time moms, you with the hands
that rock the cradle. You all make the world go round and now our
cause is one.

When asked why I would jump into a primary — kind of stirring it
up a little bit maybe — and choose one over some friends who are
running and I’ve endorsed a couple others in their races before
they decided to run for president, I was told left and right, 'you
are going to get so clobbered in the press. You are just going to
get beat up and chewed up and spit out.'

You know, I’m thinking, 'and?’

You know, like you guys haven’t tried to do that every day since
that night in ‘08, when I was on stage nominated for VP, and I got
to say, 'yeah, I’ll go, send me, you betcha. I’ll serve.'

And, like you all, I’m still standing. So those of us who’ve kind
of gone through the ringer as Mr. Trump has, makes me respect you
even more. That you’re here, and you’re putting your efforts and
you’re putting reputations, you’re putting relationships on the
line to do the right thing for this country. Because you are ready
to make America great again.

Well, I am here because like you, I know that it is now or never.

I’m in it to win it because we believe in America and we love our
freedom. And if you love your freedom, thank a vet. Thank a vet and
know that the United States military deserves a commander-in-chief
that our country passionately and will never apologize for this
country. A new commander-in-chief who will never leave our men
behind. A new commander-in-chief, one who will never lie to the
families of the fallen.

I’m in it, because just last week, we’re watching our sailors suffer
and be humiliated on a world stage at the hands of Iranian captors
in violation of international law, because a weak-kneed,
capitulator-in-chief has decided America will lead from behind. And
he, who would negotiate deals, kind of with the skills of a community
organizer maybe organizing a neighborhood tea, well, he deciding
that, 'No, America would apologize' and as part of the deal, as the
enemy sends a message to the rest of the world that they capture
and we kowtow and we apologize, and then, we bend over and say,
'Thank you, enemy.'

We are ready for a change. We are ready and our troops deserve the
best. A new commander-in-chief whose track record of success has
proven he is the master at the art of the deal. He is one who would
know to negotiate.

Only one candidate’s record of success proves he is the master of
the art of the deal. He is beholden to no one but we the people.
How refreshing. He is perfectly positioned to let you make America
great again. Are you ready for that, Iowa?

No more pussy footin’ around! Our troops deserve the best. You
deserve the best.

He is from the private sector, not a politician, can I get a
'Hallelujah!'

Where, in the private sector, you actually have to balance budgets
in order to prioritize — to keep the main thing, the main thing —
and he knows the main thing. A president is to keep us safe
economically and militarily. He knows the main thing, and he knows
how to lead the charge. So troops, hang in there, because help’s
on the way because he, better than anyone, isn’t he known for being
able to command, fire!

Are you ready for a commander-in-chief ... you ready for a
commander-in-chief who will let our warriors do their job and go
kick ISIS' ass?

Ready for someone who will secure our borders, to secure our jobs
and to secure our homes? Ready to make America great again, are you
ready to stump for Trump? I’m here to support the next president
of the United States, Donald Trump.

Now, eight years ago, I warned that Obama’s promised fundamental
transformation of America. That is was going to take more from you
and leave America weaker on the world stage and that we would soon
be unrecognizable. Well, it’s the one promise that Obama kept. But
he didn’t do it alone and this is important to remember, especially
those of you, like me, a member of the GOP. This is what we have
to remember in this very contested, competitive, great primary race.

Trump’s candidacy. It has exposed not just that tragic the ramifications
of that betrayal of the transformation of our country, but too, he
has exposed the complicity on both sides of the aisle that has
enabled it, OK?

Well, Trump, what he’s been able to do, which is really ticking
people off, which I’m glad about, he’s going rogue left and right,
man. That’s why he’s doing so well. He’s been able to tear the veil
off this idea of the system. The way that the system really works
and please hear me on this. I want you guys to understand more and
more how the system, the establishment, works and has gotten us
into the troubles that we are in — in America.

The permanent political class has been doing the bidding of their
campaign donor class and that’s why you see that the borders are
kept open. For them, for their cheap labor that they want to come
in. That’s why they’ve been bloating budgets. It’s for crony
capitalists to be able to suck off of them. It’s why we see these
lousy trade deals that gut our industry for special interests
elsewhere.

We need someone new, who has the power, and is in the position to
bust up that establishment. To make things great again. It’s part
of the problem.

His candidacy, which is a movement. It’s a force. It’s a strategy.
It proves, as long as the politicos, they get to keep their titles
and their perks and their media ratings. They don’t really care who
wins elections.

Believe me on this. And the proof of this? Look what’s happening
today. Our own GOP machine, the establishment, they who would
assemble the political landscape, they’re attacking their own
frontrunner. Now would the left ever? Would the DNC ever come after
their frontrunner and her supporters? No, because they don’t eat
their own. They don’t self-destruct. But for the GOP establishment
to be coming after Donald Trump’s supporters even, with accusations
that are so false. They are so busted, the way that this thing
works.

We, you, a diverse dynamic, needed support base that they would
attack. And now, some of them even whispering, they’re ready to
throw in for Hillary over Trump because they can’t afford to see
the status quo go. Otherwise, they won’t be able to be slurping off
the gravy train that’s been feeding them all these years. They don’t
want that to end.

Well, and then, funny, ha ha, not funny. But now, what they’re doing
is wailing, 'well, Trump and his, uh, uh, uh, Trumpeters, they’re
not conservative enough.'

Oh my goodness gracious. What the heck would the establishment know
about conservatism? Tell me, is this conservative?

GOP majorities handing over a blank check to fund Obamacare and
Planned Parenthood and illegal immigration that competes for your
jobs and turning safety nets into hammocks. And all these new
Democrat voters that are going to be coming on over border as we
keep the borders open, and bequeathing our children millions in new
debt, and refusing to fight back for our solvency and our sovereignty,
even though that’s why we elected them and sent them as a majority
to D.C. No! If they’re not willing to do that, then how are they
to tell us that we’re not conservative enough in order to be able
to make these changes in America that we know need to be made.

Now they’re concerned about this ideological purity? Give me a
break! Who are they to say that? Oh, and tell somebody like Phyllis
Schlafly. She is the Republican, conservative movement icon and
hero and a Trump supporter. Tell her she’s not conservative. How
about the rest of us? Right wingin’, bitter, clingin’, proud clingers
of our guns, our God and our religions and our Constitution. Tell
us that we’re not red enough? Yeah, coming from the establishment.
Right.

Well, he being the only one who’s been willing, he’s got the guts
to wear the issues that need to be spoken about and debated on his
sleeve. Where the rest of some of these establishment candidates,
they just wanted to duck and hide. They didn’t want to talk about
these issues until he brought them up. In fact, they’ve been wearing
a, this, political correctness kind of like a suicide vest. And
enough is enough. These issues that Donald Trump talks about had
to be debated. And he brought them to the forefront and that’s why
we are where we are today with good discussion. A good, heated and
very competitive primary is where we are.

And now, though, to be lectured that, 'Well, you guys are all
sounding kind of angry,' is what we’re hearing from the establishment.
Doggone right we’re angry! Justifiably so! Yes!

You know, they stomp on our neck and then they tell us, 'Just chill,
okay just yeah, just relax.'

Well, look, we are mad, and we’ve been had. They need to get used
to it.

This election is more than just your basic ABCs: Anybody But Clinton.
It’s more than that this go-around.

When we’re talking about a nation without borders, when we’re talking
about bankruptcies in our federal government. Debt that our children
and our grandchildren, they’ll never be able to pay off. When we’re
talking about no more Reagan-esque power that, that, comes from
strength. Power through strength. Well, then, we’re talking about
our very existence, so, no, we’re not gonna to chill. In fact, it’s
time to drill, baby, drill down, and hold these folks accountable.

And we need to stop the self-sabotage and elect new and independent.
A candidate who represents that and represents America first.
Finally. Pro-Constitution, common-sense solutions that he brings
to the table. Yes, the status quo has got to go, otherwise we’re
just going to get more of the same and with their failed agenda,
it can’t be salvaged. It must be savaged. And Donald Trump is the
right one to do that.

Are you ready for new? And are you ready for the leader who will
let you make America great again?

It’s gonna take a whole team. It’s gonna take a whole team. Fighters,
all of us, in the private sector. Fighters in the House and the
Senate. So, our friends, who are fighters in the House and the
Senate today, they need to stay there and help out. They can help
our new leader in the positions that they are in.

Let me say something really positive about one of those individuals:
Rand Paul.

I’m going to tell you about that Libertarian streak in him that is
healthy because he knows, you only go to war if you’re determined
to win the war! And you quit footin’ the bill for these nations who
are oil rich. We’re paying for some of their skirmishes that have
been going on for centuries. Where they’re fightin’ each other and
yellin’ 'Allah Akbar' calling jihad on each other’s heads for ever
and ever.

Like I’ve said before, let them duke it out and let Allah sort it
out. We’ll fight for American interests and as Donald Trump has
said, other nations where we have been footin’ the bill, but we
haven’t prioritized our own domestic budgets well enough to be able
to afford what we’re doing overseas.

Things are gonna change under President Trump.

So, it can be an unbeatable team with fighters there in the House
and the Senate. Yeah, our leader is a little bit different.

He’s a multi-billionaire. Not that there’s anything wrong with that.
But, it’s amazing, he is not elitist at all. Oh, I just hope you
all get to know him more and more as a person and a family man.
What he’s been able to accomplish, with his, um, it’s kind of this
quiet generosity. Yeah, maybe his largess, kind of, I don’t know,
some would say gets in the way of that quiet generosity, and, uh,
well, his compassion, but if you know him as a person and you’ll
get to know him more and more, you’ll have even more respect. Not
just for his record of success, and the good intentions for America,
but who he is as a person. He’s not an elitist. And yes, as a
multi-billionaire, we still root him on because he roots us on.

And he has, he’s spent his life with the workin’ man and he tells
us, Joe six packs, he said, 'You know, I’ve worked very, very hard
and I’ve succeeded. Hugely, I’ve succeeded,' he says.

And he says, 'I want you to succeed, too.'

And that is refreshing, because, he, as he builds things, he builds
big things, things that touch the sky. Big infrastructure that puts
other people to work. He has spent his life looking up and respecting
the hard hats and the steel-toed boots and the work ethic that you
all have within you.

He, being an optimist, passionate about equal opportunity to work.
The self-made success of his, he, you know that he doesn’t get his
power, his high, off of O.P.M. (U.S. Office of Personal Management),
other people’s money, like a lot of dopes in Washington do. They’re
addicted to O.P.M., where they take other people’s money, and then
their high is getting to redistribute it, right? And then, they get
to be really popular people when they get to give out your hard
money. Well, he doesn’t do that.

His power, his passion is the fabric of America and it’s woven by
work ethic and dreams and drive and faith in the Almighty. What a
combination.

Are you ready to share in that again, Iowa? Because that’s what’s
going to let you make America great again. He’s going to be able
to empower you to look out for one-another again instead of relying
on a bankrupt government to supposedly be looking out for you. No,
and I think you’re ready for that.

And Iowa, I believe, too, that you’re ready to see that our vets
are treated better than illegal immigrants are treated in this
country. And you’re ready for the tax reform he talks about to open
up main street again. And you’re ready to stop the race-baiting and
the division based on color and zip code, to unify around the right
issues. The issues important to me, or I wouldn’t be endorsing him,
pro-life, pro-Second Amendment, strict constitutionality. Those
things that are unifying values and their time-tested truths involved.
These are unifying values from big cities and tiny towns, from big
mountain states and the Big Apple, to the big, beautiful heartland
that’s in between.

Now, finally friends, I want you to try to picture this. It's a
nice thing to picture. Exactly one year from tomorrow: former
President Barack Obama.

He packs up the teleprompters and the selfie-sticks and the Greek
columns and all that hopey, changey stuff and he heads on back to
Chicago, where I’m sure he can find some community there to organize
again.

There, he can finally look up. President Obama will be able to look
up, and there, over his head, he’ll be able to see that shining,
towering, Trump Tower. Yes, Barack, he built that. And that says a
lot.

Iowa, you say a lot being here tonight, supporting the right man
who will allow you to make America great again.

God bless you! God bless the United States of America and our next
president of the United States, Donald J. Trump!"
 Before that? Okay, because that was really.
Well, but that was — okay, but I will tell you, until the very end. You know, I have a good life. I built a great company. It's been amazingly — I'm sure you looked at the numbers. I have very little debt, tremendous assets. And great cash flows. I have a wonderful family. Ivanka just had a baby. Doing this is not the easiest thing in the world to do. People have — many of my friends, very successful people, have said, "Why would you do this?"
Yeah. I would really say it was at the beginning of last year, like in January of last year. And there were a couple of times. One was, I was doing a lot of deals. I was looking at very seriously one time, not — they say, oh, he looked at it for many — I really, no. I made a speech at the end of the '80s in New Hampshire, but it was really a speech that was, it was not a political speech. But because it happened to be in New Hampshire.
And he was a very nice guy. But he asked me. And he was so intent, and I made a speech. It was not a political speech, anyway, and I forgot about it.
Well no, the real possibility was the Romney time, or the Romney term. This last one four years ago. I looked at that, really. I never looked at it seriously then. I was building my business, I was doing well. And I went up to New Hampshire, made a speech. And because it was in New Hampshire, it was sort of like, Trump is going to run. And since then people have said, Trump is going to run. I never was interested. I could almost say at all, gave it very little thought, other than the last time, where Romney was running. And I thought that Romney was a weak candidate. I thought that — I thought Obama was very beatable. Very, very beatable. You know, you had a president who was not doing well, to put it nicely. And I looked at that very seriously. I had some difficulty because I was doing some big jobs that were finishing up, which I wanted to do. My children were younger. And four years makes a big difference. And I also had a signed contract to do "The Apprentice" with NBC. Which in all fairness, you know, sounds like — when you're talking about “president” it doesn't sound much, but when you have a two-hour show, prime time, every once a week on a major network.
So — okay.
Okay.
Big decision. Yeah, this is a big decision. And I say, sometimes I'll say it in the speeches. It takes guts to run for president, especially if you're not a politician, you've never.
What happened is, during that time that I was just talking about, I started saying I'd like to do it, but I wasn't really in a position to do it. I was doing a lot of things, and I had a signed contract with NBC. But I started thinking about it. And the press started putting me in polls, and I was winning in the polls. In fact, the day before, I was on "Meet the Press" the day before I announced I wasn't going to do it, and I got signed for another two years of "The Apprentice" and everything else. Which, by the way, I don't know if you saw, but "The Apprentice" is a big thing. I made two hundred.
Yeah. You were shocked. Remember this crazy man, Lawrence O'Donnell — he's a total crazy nut — he said, Donald Trump only made a million dollars with "The Apprentice." I said, "A million dollars?" You know, when you have a show that's essentially number one almost every time it goes on, you can name it. So anyway, when they added it all up — and these are certified numbers, because you have to do certified numbers — it came out to $213 million. Okay? That's what I made on "The Apprentice." That's just — and that's one of my small things. That's what I made. You know? So it was put at $213 million, and it was certified. And your friend Joe in the morning said, "There's no way he only made." They had a big fight, and O'Donnell, Lawrence O'Donnell started crying. I never saw anything like it. Do you remember? He started crying. [Laughter] He actually started crying. But that shows the level of hatred that people have. But what happened is, I made — I had a very, very successful show. And they put me in polls, and I was essentially leading right at the top, without doing any work. Not one speech, not one anything. But any time I was in a poll, I did very well in the poll. Anyway, I decided not to do it. NBC called and Mark Burnett would call, and I did see if I could get out. I had another year on the contract. Because you're not allowed, because of the equal time, you're not allowed to have a show.
Well, that's what — I mean. Between 2011 and 2014? I would say, just thought process. Only thought process.
Yeah, I mean, I was doing — but in terms of this, only thought process. So what happened, but during this period of time, I said, you know, this is something I really would like to do. I think I'd do it really well. Obviously the public seems to like me, because without any.
To myself.
To my family, but to myself.
  Yeah, to myself, and.
This is thought process. And I'm saying to myself, you know, look, they put me in these polls. I'm number one. In fact, I said, I'm probably the only person ever to announce I'm not going to run for president when I'm number one in the polls. Because I remember the week that I announced that I wasn't going to run and that I was going to — that basically NBC extended me for quite a period of time. And the week. Oh, this is my son Don. Bob and Bob.
So during — and I spoke to Don, I spoke to my children about it. But during this period of time, I said, you know, I think I could probably do very well if I did it. But I didn't do it because of contractual obligations, because I was finishing up things. Actually, this is one of the things right now. This started afterward. This started, we're actually a year and a half ahead of schedule and under budget on this hotel. So what happened, Bob, what happened is. But during this period, I started really thinking during this period of time. And then Romney was a very, very failed and flawed candidate. He did a very poor job. Because I always felt that was a race that should've been won. I think in many respects that's an easier race than the race you have now. And Romney did a poor job. And we all go back to work. Then about a year before June 16 — that's the day that I announced — I started really thinking about it very, very strongly. But the show continued to do very well. You know, 14 seasons, that's a long time. But it continued to do very well.
Well, I'll tell you a moment.
I'll tell you a moment when it kicked to yes. Because it was a monetary moment also. So you saw that it made a lot of money because it was certified. Now it's much more, because I also have a big chunk of the show. We chose Arnold Schwarzenegger to take my place. Okay? And hopefully Arnold will do well; who knows? But there was a moment in, I would say, February of last year, so that would be four months, three, four months before I announced, when Steve Burke, great guy, of Comcast — the head — came to see me with the top people at NBC. And they wanted to extend my contract. And I said, "Steve, I think that I am going to run for president. And if I do that, I'm not allowed to have a show." In fact, when I did "Saturday Night Live" recently, it was a whole big deal. I'm not allowed to be on, and they actually had to give certain periods of time to other candidates that were running. It was a whole big. So. I disagree with the equal time provisions. I think they're very unfair. But nevertheless, you have them. So I said, "Steve, I can't have a show if I run. I can't be having a show, so I'm not going to run." He says, "No, no, no, you're going to do it." I said, "Steve, I'm going to." And they actually went to the upfronts and they announced that "The Apprentice" — in fact, you had a problem with it, because you were hearing that I was going to run, and then they announce that they're going to renew "The Apprentice" with Donald Trump. And I remember he called one of my people, maybe Hope. But he called one of my people and said, "Wait a minute, he's going to run, but he just announced he's doing 'The Apprentice.' " Do you remember that problem?
I didn't announce it. It was NBC, they so wanted the show to be renewed.
Well, okay. Sure. Okay. Prior to that, I just felt there were so many things going wrong with the country. In particular, because I'm a very natural person when it comes to business, I assume — I mean, I've done really well, and I do have an instinct for that — and I felt that we were doing some of the worst trade deals ever. And then you look at what's going on in Iran with the beginning of negotiations of that disastrous deal. You know, look, it could've been a much better deal, Bob. They could've walked a couple of times. They could've doubled the sanctions for a couple of days and gotten the prisoners out early. They could've done so many things. To give the $150 billion back was terrible. So it was a terrible deal. It was a terrible negotiation. It was negotiated by people that are poor negotiators against great negotiators. Persians being great negotiators, okay? It's one of those things. You might be Persian. But the Iranians, frankly, are great negotiators. The deal was a disaster. But I would see so many things. And it would make me angry.
I would say in my case, more than anything else, the stupidity of the trade deals that we have with China, with Japan, with Mexico, with other. Because that's something that I see. And I didn't know that it would hit such a chord, because it's hit a chord with a lot of.
Well, I would tell my family about it all the time. Don is one of my sons, and doing a really good job. He's involved very much in this job. Don and my family, I would talk about it a lot. I would say, "I can't believe they're doing it." And another thing would happen. I own a big part of the Bank of America building in San Francisco [and]  1290 Avenue of the Americas. I got it from China. Meaning Chinese people had it. It was a big thing. It was a war, it was actually a war.
Oh. Yeah.
I think my wife would much have preferred that I didn't do it. She's a very private person. She was a very, very successful — very, very successful model. She made a tremendous amount of money and had great success and dealt at the.
She was, she said, we have such a great life. "Why do you want to do this?" She was.
I said, "I sort of have to do it, I think. I really have to do it." Because it's something I'd be — I could do such a great job. I really wanted to give something back. I don't want to act overly generous, but I really wanted to give something back.
Yeah, I had to.
Well, she's a very private person, and very smart person. I'm sure you've seen a couple of interviews that she's done. She's very smart. And there's no games. You know, it's boom, it's all business. But a very smart person. And considered one of the great beauties.
And she said, "Why are we doing the." Oh, absolutely. She said, "If you want to do it, then you should do it, but." And she actually said something that was very interesting. She's very observant. And she would go around with me. And look, I've been around for a long time at a high level. That's why you were up in my office in, I guess it was '89, I can't believe. So that might help you with your check. Check '89, '88. But I've been around a long time. She said, "You know if you run, you'll win." I said, "I don't know if I'm going to win." She said, "If you run, you'll win. But if you say you're going to run, they're never going to – people are not going to believe it." Because people were let down the first time, I will tell you. They really wanted me to run, and I would've beaten Romney. They really — they wanted me to run that time. So for the most part, the polls didn't include me. And then one poll included me, and I didn't do that well. I was down at like 3 percent. I said to my wife, "I don't think I can run. I'm down at 3 percent." Boy, that's a long way to go up. And she goes, "No, no, no, you're only at 3 percent because they don't believe you're running. If they thought you were going to run." I said,"No, no, the poll said I'm going to run." She said, "No, no, they still don't believe it." It doesn't matter what the poll says. The poll can say, you are going to run, Donald Trump is going to absolutely run. It was very interesting. Sort of like — I called her my pollster. She said, "No, no, they won't believe that. I don't care if they put it in, if they put it at the top of your building, 'I'm going to run.' They're not going to believe it unless that you go out and announce that you're going to run." And she said, "I hope you don't do it, but if you run, you'll win."
So it was an evolution.
And then the big thing, by the way, the big thing was standing at the top of that escalator, looking down into that room — which was a sea of reporters, of which he was one, but a sea — that was as big as anything we've had. And getting up and saying, all right. And I remember. I took a deep breath. I said, "Let's go," to my wife. And you know, we came down. Pretty famous scene, the escalator scene. Boom. And we started, and we talked illegal immigration, and it became a very big subject, and that's where we started.
Okay. So first of all, I have to get there. Because I view it as a highly competitive process. I've been, it's very interesting, I've done very well up until now. I've taken out a lot of people. We had 17 people.
Okay. I think more than anything else, it's the security of our nation. That's always going to be – that's number one, two and three. After that, many things come into focus. It's health, it's health care. It's jobs. It's the economy. But number one —and I say number one, two, three — is the security of the country. The military, being strong, not letting bad things happen to our country from the outside. And I certainly think that that's always going to be my number one part of that definition.
Right.
That's true. That's true.
Well, I think Lincoln succeeded for numerous reasons. He was a man who was of great intelligence, which most presidents would be. But he was a man of great intelligence, but he was also a man that did something that was a very vital thing to do at that time. Ten years before or 20 years before, what he was doing would never have even been thought possible. So he did something that was a very important thing to do, and especially at that time. And Nixon failed, I think to a certain extent, because of his personality. You know? It was just that personality. Very severe, very exclusive. In other words, people couldn't come in. And people didn't like him. I mean, people didn't like him.
And he broke the law, yeah. Yeah. He broke the law. Whether that's insecurity.
Yeah. Whether that's — right. And he broke the law.
Sure. Sure.
Right.
  Right.
Well, and he was actually talking very much about himself, because ultimately, ultimately, that is what destroyed him. Hate is what destroyed him. And such an interesting figure. I mean, you would know that better than anybody. But such an interesting figure. And such a man of great talent. I mean, Nixon had great potential, great talent. Unfortunately it was a very sad legacy in the end. It turned out to be a very sad legacy. Such an interesting figure to study. I think.
  Yeah.
Yeah. No, I don't. I don't see that. What I do see is — what I am amazed at is, I'm somebody that gets along with people. And sometimes I'll notice, I'll be, I have the biggest crowds. Actually we've purposefully kept the crowds down this past week. You know, we've gone into small venues and we're turning away thousands and thousands of people, which I hate, but we didn't want to have the protest. You know, when you have a room of 2,000 people, you can pretty much keep it without the protesters. When you have 21 or 25,000 people coming in, people can start standing up and screaming. What has been amazing to me — I'm a very inclusive person. I actually am somebody that gets along with people. And yet from a political standpoint, although I certainly have a lot of fans — you just said hello to Senator Sessions. Cruz and everybody wanted Senator Sessions as much as they've wanted anybody, and he's a highly respected guy, great guy. And we have some— and he endorsed me. We have some amazing endorsements, some amazing people, but I'm amazed at the level of animosity toward me by some people. I'm amazed.
I think you may be right. I think you may be right.
Okay.
No, I say in my life I've gotten along with people.
This is the first time where I've had this.
Well, let me tell you the biggest problem that I have. And I talk about it a lot. I get a very unfair press. I'm somebody that's a person that understands when I say — when I say, I say what I say. But I really do get a very, very unfair press. And a lot of times I'll be making a speech, as an example, in front of a — in Orlando, where you have 20, 25,000 people show up in the sun at 3  in the afternoon in an open venue. And I will be saying things, and Bob, it won't be reported what I say. It will be reported so differently.
 Well, the problem with my view of the.
No, you're right, but if the press would report what I say, I think I would go a long way to doing that. Now, there is a natural bias against me because I'm a businessperson, I'm not in the club. Okay? You understand that. I'm not in the club. I'm not a senator, I'm not a politician. I'm not somebody that's been in Congress for 25 years, and I know everybody, I'm somebody — I'm very much an outsider. I am also somebody that's self-funding my campaign, other than small contributions.
But the press doesn't like me. For the most part.
No, I, but I think I do say this: My media coverage is not honest. It really isn't. And I'm not saying that as a person with some kind of a complex. I'm just saying, I will be saying words that are written totally differently from what I've said. And I see it all — in all fairness, the editorial board of The Washington Post. I was killed on that. I left the room, I thought it was fine.
Well, I think — it's a great question, and it's a question I've thought about a lot. I mean, I think the first thing I have to do is win. Winning solves a lot of problems. And I have two people left. We started off with 17 people. I have two people left. And one of the problems I have is that when I hit people, I hit them harder maybe than is necessary. And it's almost impossible to reel them back..o [a famous athlete] calls me up about a month ago, right after I beat Rubio. And I beat him by 20 points. That was a big beating. Don't forget, he was the face of the Republican Party. He was the future of the Republican Party. So [he] called me up. And he said, “Hey Donald, could you do us all a favor? We love you. Don't kill everybody. Because you may need them on the way back.” You know, you may need them when you go to phase 3, or whatever phase you're looking.
I just thought it was a great. You know, especially.
It's true.
I do. I agree. I agree.
But I think you have to break the egg initially. In other words, I agree with you, but when you're coming from where I'm coming from — I came from the outside. By the way, I was establishment. I was an establishment guy until I said I'm running. And then when I said I don't want anyone's money, that drove everyone. I mean, outside of the small contributions, you know, the stuff. But — because — and even — the reason for the small — we get lots of little contributions. What does it amount to? Six, 7 million dollars? And we sell paraphernalia, we sell the Trump shirt and the Trump hat, little stuff. But it still amounted to like 6 million dollars, seven. But I'm in for about $35 million. But I don't want any money. Bob, I have turned down — I would have made — Bush had $148 million. I would've had five times that much if I wanted to take it.
Sometimes you have to break an egg.
Well, if that's the question, I think I have two more left.
So that's the question.
I'm looking to win first. I really believe that once. My life has been about victories. I've won a lot. I win a lot. I win —when I do something, I win. And even in sports, I always won. I was always a good athlete. And I always won. In golf, I've won many club championships. Many, many club championships. And I have people that can play golf great, but they can't win under pressure. So I've always won.
  Oh, is that what you're referring to?
  No, I don't think he represents Reagan.
Okay. Well, maybe now how he's selling himself.
Yeah. Well, but I also need the outside people, and I'm definitely now the outsider. Cruz is interesting. We got along very well.
I would make provocative statements, and he would say, "I agree with Mr. Trump." I mean, he was above all. But I kept saying, "I wonder when he will attack." Because ultimately, assuming. Because I've been at the center of the dais from day one. And even the other day, NBC came out with a poll, I'm at 48 to twenty-something. You know, that's a national poll. So what happened is he was, could not have been more supportive. And in fact, he made a speech, he was making a big speech in Washington, and he didn't have that many people going. And he called me and he said, "Would it be possible for you to come?" I made it outside of the capital, right in front of the capital, and I came and a tremendous number of people came and it was very successful. We shook hands and I left and that was that. But I got along with Cruz, Cruz, great. But I always said, Bob, and you were there, I said, at some point, this is going to end. Because people would say, you're the only two.
Yeah. And at some point the nomination.
I am. Because I understand life. And I understand how life works. I'm the Lone Ranger. And I said the other day — I watched Cruz as he tried to be as politically correct as he could be. And they say, well, will you support? And I watched him during the debate, and he said yes, and Rubio said yes, and everybody said yes. Because that was the thing to do. We have to support the party. But I watched him struggling the other day, struggling so hard, to not use the word “no” when asked about will he support Donald Trump. At the same time, not wanting to — wishing the question wasn't asked. Because he didn't want to do anything that would be offensive to the party, let's say, and to standard politics.
But Bob, what I told him...
What I said is that, I watched that, and I said, look, he doesn't have to support me. It really doesn't matter. I don't want to make his life difficult.
Um.
  Yeah.
He broke a lot of eggs.
Right.
Totally, totally.
I don't think it's now.
No, because I think I have to win before I can do that. Look, I've had...
No, because you have two people that want to win also, and they're not going to be changing their ways.
Okay. As you know, certain polls have me beating Hillary Clinton, but I haven't focused on Hillary Clinton yet. Okay? And I say that all the time. I have not focused on her.  I've only focused on the people that are ahead of me, and right now I have two people. I don't have to think about whether it's going to be Hillary or somebody else. I'd love your view on what's going to happen with Hillary from the other standpoint, okay? Because that's really going to be a very interesting question. And it seems to be heating up, which is almost a little surprising, because it looked to me like she's being protected. But my family said to me – and Don has said this, and Ivanka, and my wife has said this – "Be more presidential." Because I can be very presidential. I jokingly say, I can be more presidential than any president that this country has ever had except for Abraham Lincoln, because he was [unclear]. Right? You can't out-top Abraham Lincoln.
Yeah. Yeah, but they said... Yes.
A lot. Record-setting.
I bring...
Yes, yes, but I bring that out in people. I do. I'm not saying that's an asset or a liability, but I do bring that out.
I bring rage out. I do bring rage out. I always have. I think it was. I don't know if that's an asset or a liability, but whatever it is, I do. I also bring great unity out, ultimately. I've had many occasions like this, where people have hated me more than any human being they've ever met. And after it's all over, they end up being my friends. And I see that happening here. But when my wife and Ivanka and the rest of my family, for the most part — Tiffany, my daughter, she's a very smart young woman, she's up at University of Pennsylvania doing great — and she said to me the same thing.
Be presidential. Now.
Well, they really started saying it before the last debate. The last debate. And if you noticed, my attitude was much different in the last debate, okay? But I said, wait a minute. According to every single — you know, Drudge, and all of the polls, they do these online – they have polls for everything. They do debate polls. And you know what I'm talking about.
Hundreds of thousands of people vote. I won every single debate. Every single debate. And I was rough and I was nasty. And I was treated nastily by the other side too. And then Rubio went, you know, Rubio went Don Rickles on me, and all of a sudden he became cute and he started getting extremely nasty. And I had to get even nastier to him. Now, what happened —and then started with the Little Marco. Come on, Little Marco. Little Marco over here said this and that. And he didn't want to — he didn't stop that, he didn't stop that because he was told, oh, he should stop. He stopped that because I was outdoing him. But here's the thing.
Right, but here's the thing.
Wait.
Okay, so my family comes up. Don. My daughter Tiffany, who's a great kid. Ivanka. My wife. And we were together. They said, "Be presidential, Dad, be presidential." Last debate. I said, wait a minute. If I get hit, I'm going to hit back. That's not going to look very presidential, because I hit back and you hit back. I said, I'm going to give it a shot. And I was actually — you know, the last debate was actually a much different debate.
In terms of my tone. And I actually got my highest ratings on that debate.
Not yet. Not yet.
  No.
My — yes, always to fight. My natural inclination is to win. And after I win, I will be so presidential that you won't even recognize me. You'll be falling asleep, you'll be so bored.
I don't need his support. I don't believe I need it.
Well, what I said is, I don't need his.
Well Bob.
Yeah.
I don't think — I have the people's support. I have a tremendous group. And by the way, let me just, before we get off that one — because you were saying about Cruz — it wasn't like he embraced me.
It wasn't like he said, oh, I will endorse Donald Trump. He is so wonderful, and if I don't make it he is somebody that I think would be fantastic. Well, he didn't exactly say that, Bob. He said. He was pained having to answer the question.
So it wasn't like I'm saying, I don't want his support, as he says great things about me. So I had no guilt whatsoever saying it. I do believe it.
I'll never have to call him. I may be at a point where I call him, but I never will.
I would call him to say congratulations on a great job. Because out of 17 people, you beat 16. Okay? Which is pretty good, to put it mildly. You know, we had a lot of talent. When I first ran, and this is where I had some doubts, because what do I know? I didn't know most of these people. Although I'd been very political. I'd given a lot of money. I gave $350,000 last year to the Republican Governors Association. I was a member of the establishment, if you think about it, and very high standing because of.
I don't think I'd say it that way, but I would be able.
to get along with some of the people that I was competing against. Now, I will say this: Some of the people that I was competing against, I'm not sure they can ever go back to me. I was very rough on Jeb. I was told when I first started that Jeb was the preemptive favorite. He was going to .
  I don't think — look.
I think that's overrated, what you're saying, about bringing them into the fold. At the same time, I think I would be successful with many of them. I don't know that I'll be successful with Jeb Bush.
I think I would.
Yeah, I understand.
I think Cruz and I could get along very well. I actually think so. We got along very well for six months.
We got along very well for six months when I was attacking everybody.
Well, we'll have to see what happens. I don't think now, Bob, because he wants to win and I want to win. And I guess Kasich wants to win, although Kasich's only won one out of 28, right? That's not so good.
Yeah, and got along. And truly disliked each other.
Yeah.
I would never want to say that now. Right now, I just want to win. And I don't want to say who's going to be — as an example, people are saying, you should pick so-and-so as vice president. It's just too early for that. In my opinion, it's too..
I do. I do have names.
I'd rather not do it now.
  Very good point.
The only thing I did with Dr. Carson — because I respect him a lot — but I just talked about his book. Because he wrote things in his book, and all I did was quote from his book. Because, you know, it was tough stuff what he wrote about himself. He wrote about himself. It's an amazing story. And he.
understands that.
Well, the number one role is to be a great president if something should happen. Okay? That's always got to be the number one role for a vice president. After that, I would say, frankly, somebody that can help you get elected. And then thirdly, somebody that helps you with the Senate and with the House. So it would be a political person. In other words, I don't need to have another great businessman come in and — I don't need that. What I do.
Somebody that can walk into the Senate and who's been friendly with these guys for 25 years, and people for 25 years. And can get things done. So I would 95 percent see myself picking a political person as opposed to somebody from the outside.
Yes, I would. Sure. Sure. This would be a vice president — I would like to have somebody. For instance, somebody like Ben Carson. When Ben Carson came to me — not necessarily vice president — but when he came to me, he called, he said, "What you're doing is amazing. It's a movement. And you see that." When I announce I'm going to go to Tampa three days before, and we go there three days later, there's 25,000 people in the stadium that houses the professional sports teams..
Yeah.
Somebody like Ben Carson, he never once said to me, could I have a position?
No, no, he doesn't. But he will be absolutely somebody that I'd love to have involved with us at a high level, at a very high level. Chris Christie. Chris called, he said, I'd love to be involved. And I said, that's great. I've never been a big one for endorsements. Although Tom Brady loves me in New England; I think that's why I got 50 percent. Okay? Tom Brady loves me. [Laughter] That helped.
Great loyalty, yes. Great discretion, great loyalty.
Well, it's.
I think they should. You know, when somebody — and I see it all the time..nd I don't know, there could be some kind of a law that you can't do this. But when people are chosen by a man to go into government at high levels and then they leave government and they write a book about a man and say a lot of things that were really guarded and personal, I don't like that. I mean, I'll be honest. And people would say, oh, that's terrible, you're taking away his right to free speech. Well, he's going in.. would say I do have nondisclosure deals. That's why you don't read that.
Corey has one, Hope has one. Did you sign one?
Stephen has one.
DTJ.: I don't have one. I'm in the middle of the book. [Laughter]
I know, I forgot, he's the one I'm most worried about.
DTJ: I'm not getting next week's paycheck until I sign one.
I have a very, very, very prominent businessman who's right now got a person — he's involved in litigation, terrible litigation with somebody that worked for him in a very close level. And I said why are you.
  Yeah, totally. I think they're very airtight. They're very.
I think they're extremely airtight. And anybody that violated it —  let's put it this way: it's so airtight that I've never had you know, I've never had a problem with this sort of thing.
By the way, this man called me, he said, how is it that you don't have — as famous as you are? And I sent him a copy of the agreement. He said, this is genius. And he now has people that go to work for him. I don't like people that take your money and then say bad things about you. Okay? You know, they take your.
It's different, I agree. It's different.
And I tell you this, I will have to think about it. I will have to think about it. That's a different thing, that I'm running a private company and I'm paying people lots of money, and then they go out and...
Sure. Sure. They don't do a great job, and then you fire them and they end up writing a book about you. So it's different. But I will say that in the federal government it's a different thing. So it's something I would think about. But you know, I do right now — I have thousands and thousands of employees, many thousands, and every one of them has an agreement, has a. call it a confidentiality.
I would say the following: I have seen people make the statement for Senate and for other positions, government — because I've been a very political person over the years, I've gotten as many zone changes as any human being on earth, probably, including the entire West Side of Manhattan from 77nd Street to 59th Street. A very successful job. I would say that every time I see somebody make that statement and then they're feeling good and doing a great job, and they run, they lose because of that statement. So I would never want to say that four years. would never want to limit myself to four years. I think I can do a tremendous job in four years. One of your questions, I noticed, is what would be your first 90 days in terms — and we'll talk about that next.
But, so I think I can do a terrific job. And I think this: if I'm doing a terrific job, and if I'm feeling well, I would say I would continue to go for the extra four years. Because again, I don't want to put that burden on myself. If I'm doing a good job, I should be allowed. And I only say that because you know, Bob, I've seen so many people say it. Even for local positions. And if they decide to then go, they always lose because they make that statement. So I don't want to say that. But I think I will be able to do a fantastic job in four years.
Yeah, a bubble.
Well, I think we're sitting on an economic bubble. A financial bubble. I think if you look at the stock market...
Yeah.
Well first of all, we're not at five percent unemployment. We're at a number that's probably into the twenties if you look at the real number. That was a number that was devised, statistically devised to make politicians — and in particular presidents — look good. And I wouldn't be getting the kind of massive crowds that I'm getting if the number was a real number. People are extremely unhappy in this country.
No, no, I'm talking about .
I'm talking about a bubble where you go into a very massive recession. Hopefully not worse than that, but a very massive recession. Look, we have money that's so cheap right now. And if I want to borrow money, I can borrow all the money I want. But I'm rich. If a person that wants to put a lot of people to. .And I don't need the money. I don't have to borrow. I don't even call banks anymore. I use my own money to do things. If I want to borrow money or if another rich person wants to borrow money, you can borrow money at, like, LIBOR plus nothing. And you're paying one and a half percent interest, it's crazy, and they'll give you all you want. If somebody is a great, wonderful person, going to employ lots of people, a really talented businessperson, wants to borrow money but they're not rich? They have no chance.
Oh, bubbles are scary.
Yeah. That's true. I think that's true. I think you had a lot of signs, because you had all those exploding mortgages. I told.
people.
Okay, so I made many speeches for different groups on success, where people would pay me a lot of money, I gave it to charity. People would pay me money for speeches on success. So I would do that, before this. And I would tell people, don't invest that, don't go – I was pretty good at prognostication, at telling people what to do in terms of. Now, I'd talk about success, but I'd say, this is a bad time to invest. I also said, this is a good time to invest.
Oh, I think it's a terrible time right now.
Yeah.
Because the dollar is so strong. Our country is in – you know, it's very interesting. There's a couple of things good about strong dollars, but there's some...
Oh, my stock tip is that the market – I believe we're sitting on a big bubble. So you take a look at what's going on. You have — think of it — you have cheap money that nobody can get unless you're rich. You have the regulators are running the banks. Not the guys that are being paid $50 million a year to run the banks. I mean, when you look at many of your friends that are running banks that are being paid $40 and $50 million, yeah, they're not running the banks. The regulators are running the banks. You have a situation where you have an inflated stock market. It started to deflate, but then it went back up again. Usually that's a bad sign. That's a sign of things to come. And yeah, I think we're sitting on a very, very big bubble.
Yeah, I don't care about the.. know the Wall Street people. I know the Wall Street people probably better than anybody knows them. You know, the Wall Street.
No. No. You know, I don't need them. No, other candidates need them, by the way. Ted Cruz needs them. Ted Cruz borrowed millions of dollars for his [political-action committees].
And by the way, and didn't disclose on his personal financials that he was borrowing money from Goldman Sachs and Citibank and didn't — and paying almost no interest. He had an interest rate that you would've been proud to have, and he didn't disclose it. Which nobody made a big deal out of. You did a little bit. But no I do, I think we're sitting — it's precarious times. Part of the reason it's precarious is because we are being ripped so badly by other countries. We are being ripped so badly by China. It just never ends. Nobody's ever going to stop it. And the reason they're not going to stop it is one of two. They're either living in a world of the make believe, or they're totally controlled by their lobbyists and their special interests. Meaning people that want it to continue. Because what China, what Mexico, what Japan — I don't want to name too many countries, because I actually do business in a lot of these countries – but what these countries are doing to us is unbelievable. They are draining our jobs. They are draining our money. They are taking the money out .
I'm pessimistic. Unless changes are made. Changes could be made.
Yes, I can fix it. I can fix it pretty quickly.
When I was at your editorial board meeting, I talked about NATO. And I'm not a world expert on NATO. But I have a natural instinct for certain things, okay? Like I said, keep the oil. Well, now ISIS has the oil. I said a lot of things. I said in my book about — written in 2000 — mentioned Bin Laden in a paragraph or two. And that was two years before the World Trade Center came down. And I'm not a politician, I was.
Okay, well, I say this. Look: We are making, and we have, some of the worst trade deals in the history of trade. We're now making one, Trans-Pacific Partnership. TPP. A disaster, that deal is a disaster.
Yeah. Oh, I was against NAFTA.
I was against NAFTA. NAFTA's been a disaster. I mean, frankly, I'm a big Ronald Reagan fan, but I disagreed with him on trade. I thought his trade policies were terrible.
Okay. I would do a number of things. I would, number one, I would start negotiating great trade deals using — I know the best people. You know.
No, no, it can't, no, but I would start the negotiation. No, these are complicated transactions. Part of the problem with the TPP is it's 12 countries. Okay? And you should do individual country deals. It's 7,000 pages long. And each one of those countries has studied this thing, photographic. We have congressmen, they don't even read these agreements.
Yeah. It's a bad deal. It's a bad deal for our country.
Well, I know, but it's a bad deal for our country. What I would do – and before I talk about legislation, because I think frankly this is more important – number one, it's going to be a very big tax cut. Because the middle class has been. And Larry Kudlow and numerous people have liked very much. You know, I put in a plan for tax cuts, and I've gotten some very good reviews. I would do a tax cut. You have to do a tax cut. Because we're the highest-taxed nation in the world. But I would start — because I noticed your question briefly — boom, what would you do in the first 90 days? I would immediately start renegotiating our trade deals with Mexico, China, Japan and all of these countries that are just absolutely destroying us. And they have been for years. It's an incredible tribute to our country that we can lose billions — hundreds of billions — of dollars consistently, year in and year out — and still even survive. We have rebuilt China. We have rebuilt it. I mean, you look at what's going on in China. We have rebuilt China single-handedly. Now, they've done okay with Europe too, but.
Renegotiate trade deals and renegotiate military deals.
And by the way, and renegotiate with NATO. And renegotiate with Japan and with...
And I'm negotiating over 100 deals. We're negotiating 114 deals.
No.
No. Well, you know, it depends on what your definition of “sue” is. We will be able to make great trade deals. It'll be good for the counties, it will be good for us.
It will go. Yeah, I would say within the first year a lot of it will be done.
But you have to be able to walk. You have to be able to.
Go ahead.
Look, we are losing $500 billion a year on trade deficits with China. Okay? We've been for a long time, from 200 to 500. We are losing hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars a year on trade. You look at Japan. They send their cars in here by the hundreds of thousands. You go to Los Angeles, you look at those docks, and these cars get driven off those boats at 40 miles an hour. You've never seen anything like it. They just come pouring into our country. And yet when — you talk about an imbalance, when it comes to us selling to Japan? They take very little.
Oh, I have great optimism.
Oh. Oh, okay. With all of that, I'm an optimistic person. You know, “Make America great again.”
Make America great again. That's actually a very optimistic — you know, that's not — some people say, oh, that's so —because they hate the word “again.” I said, "No, no, you don't understand. We're going to make America great again." People view that as very positive. Do you know, workers. . You can have that [unclear] question. I dictated this out pretty much.
But you know what, we can delay that meeting for 20 minutes. I love this.
Could you call them up and say could we delay half an hour?
[unclear] Call them back, tell them we'll be 45 minutes late, is it okay? Only if it's okay. If he can't do it...
Okay. Because I'd like to finish with these guys.
So just so you understand, mine is a message of great optimism. We can fix it.
No, no. Not everybody thinks that. Some people don't understand that.
Was she here...
Yeah. I'll give her great dignity. Let me hear the question – you may not know the answer.
Was she here legally or illegally?
That means she was here illegally. Okay. So here.
I understand that.
I'll tell you what I'd say to her. Number one, she was probably here illegally. The polls are all showing people — Hispanics — that are here legally like me very much. In Nevada, you saw the poll, I'm leading with the Hispanics. People that vote, people that therefore are here. I'm leading with Hispanics. People that are here illegally maybe feel differently and they do feel differently, but people that are here legally, Hispanics that are here, they don't want their jobs taken. And they know I'll bring jobs back from China. I'll bring jobs back from Japan and from Mexico and from all these countries. You look at what Mexico's doing, Bob. Mexico is the new China, smaller level. Mexico, what they're doing to us on trade and at the border is unbelievable. Okay? And I was right. When I got up and made that initial speech in Trump Tower on June 16, and I talked about illegal immigration and the problems, that hit a nerve. You know? Because.
I am a person that's going to bring this country together. I'm a person that's going to unify the country. President Obama is a divider. He is not a unifier. When he first got elected, I didn't have great feelings for the fact that he was going to do well. But the one thing I thought, he would be able to unify the country. African American, white, I thought that he would be a unifying factor. He has not been. He's been a great.
I know. They feel that now.
Well again, so I asked you the very important question, was she here legally or illegally?
Because if she was here legally, I think you would find that she would like me very much. In Nevada, where you have a huge Hispanic population, when they did the exit polls, I won with the people that are Hispanic in the state of Nevada. But not by a little bit, by a lot. I think that's a — it's an important question to ask. I will give people back their dignity because I'm going to bring jobs back. Our jobs are being taken away from us like candy from a baby. Our jobs are being ripped out of our country. Carrier announced — I talked about it the last month, because I thought that was in particular bad. Maybe because I buy a lot of Carrier air conditioners. But.
That's right. Totally. I do. I mean, totally. I mean, ultimately we're all immigrants, okay? I have total empathy. At the same time, we need borders, otherwise we don't have a country, and we have to be – you have to come into the country legally. And that's been a big theme of my campaign, and for the most part, I think it's [unclear].
Yeah. Well.
No. I'm.
Well, illegal immigrants, yeah. Just so you understand, I want people to come into this country. I want to make it much easier to come into the country. But they have to come in through a legal process. Were you able to do that, Corey? Huh?
We have a meeting with — sort of an important meeting.
Well actually we already met with them. We just.
  It went great.
I'd love to keep it going. I actually enjoy this. I'll probably end up ruing the day. I'll say, how could they have said that stuff about me? But I do really enjoy this.
Here's what — I think I'll do really great. With the African Americans. And a lot of people think that. And you know that a lot of people think that. But I think I'm going to do great with the African Americans. I think I'm going to do great with Hispanics. I'm going to bring jobs back to the country. I'm not going to let people take our jobs. I'm not going to let people go — I'm not going to let factories and Nabisco and all of these companies — Ford — we're going to build here. We're going to keep the jobs in our country. And we're going to bring jobs back to our country, Bob. And that's going to .
Jobs is a very big answer, because that's going to give.
That's right. But dignity. And maybe she'll have a better job. She'll have more options.
Okay.
It's funny, it's very interesting. I'm surprised he said that, because I heard him recently say that the biggest problem we have is global warming, which I totally disagree with. Okay?
Okay.
It's very interesting. I have. absolutely agree. I think the single greatest problem that the world has — we have an ISIS problem, and we have — but the single greatest problem that this world has is a nuclear, the power of nuclear. The tremendous power. You look at Hiroshima and multiply it times a thousand.
Okay.
Well, if it's done on equal basis, absolutely.
But the problem you have now. Done on an equal basis. The problem you have now is you have Pakistan. And you just see what happened in Pakistan. It's not like, you know, that's a perfect situation. You have India. You have so many countries now with nuclear already. You have some very bad people trying very hard to get nuclear. So I think that's something that in an ideal world is wonderful, but I think it's not going to happen very easily.
I would love to see a nuclear-free world. Will that happen? Chances are extremely small that will happen. Look, Russia right now is spending a tremendous amount of money on re-doing their entire nuclear arsenal.
By the way, I love that. But from a practical standpoint, not going to happen.
  In the Atlantic, okay.
Well, I think there's a certain truth to that. I think there's a certain truth to that. Real power is through respect. Real power is, I don't even want to use the word, fear. But you know, our military is very sadly depleted. You look at what's going on with respect to our military and it's depleted from all of the cuts. Hey, as a real estate person, all the time I'm getting listings of bases, Army bases, Marine bases, naval bases. I keep saying, how many bases do they have? I'm constantly getting, it's crossing my desk, do we want to buy a base in Virginia? Do we want to buy. And I see it all the time. We have to strengthen our military. It's so vital to do that. We have to strengthen our military. By the way, we have to take care of our vets. So vital. But we have to strengthen our military. Now, one of the things that The Washington Post treated me very badly on, when I talked to you about NATO, we're spending too much money, and we're not getting treated with respect from the 28 countries that we're dealing with.
No.
I didn't say I'd get out of NATO. I say it's got to be.  First of all, it's obsolete. Our big threat today is terrorism. Okay? And NATO's not really set up for terrorism. NATO is set up for the Soviet Union more than anything else. And now you don't have the Soviet Union.
No, because we seem to get ripped off by everybody. We seem to always be the one that pays the bill and gets the least. And we're going to stop doing that.
Yes, I'm talking about reform.
I'm talking totally about reform. But you have to be —  in order to get reform, you have to be prepared to walk. Otherwise you can't get reform. For instance, the Iran deal. Had John Kerry stood up from his chair when they kept saying no, no, no, no — he didn't get anything. Had he stood up twice — once or twice — from his chair and said, sorry gentlemen, we're leaving, and increased the sanctions, you would've had a whole different Iran deal.
Go ahead.
Yeah, I don't want people to be afraid. I want them to respect our country. Right now, they don't respect our country.
People have respected me. My life has been a life where I've been respected. I want them to respect our country. I want them to respect our leader. But I want them to respect our country. Now, you could use.
Through the aura of personality. Through having the goods. You know, so Muhammad Ali is a friend of mine. He's a good guy. I've watched many people over the years. Muhammad Ali would get in the ring and he'd talk and talk and scream and talk about the ugly bear, and this, that — you know. And then he'd win. And respect is about winning. We don't win anymore. I see it in my — we don't win anymore. And he'd win. I've seen many fighters that were better than Muhammad Ali, in terms of talking. I've seen guys that were so beautiful, so flamboyant, they'd get into the ring — and then they'd get knocked out. And guess what? It's all gone. Let me just say: we don't win anymore.
I want Putin to respect our country, okay?
Well, first of all, it's sort of interesting. He said very good things about me.
You saw that. He said, Trump is brilliant and Trump is going to be the new leader and all that. And some of these clowns said, you should repudiate Putin. I said, why would I repudiate him? He's not going to get anything. Because I've been through this stuff before. But he said very positive things about me. And I say to myself — and I say to people — wouldn't it be nice if we actually could get along with Russia? And if we could get along with these people? China takes advantage of us. Look at what they're doing in the South China Sea. They're not supposed to be playing that game. Okay? Look at what they're doing. That is a lack of respect. When they're building a massive, like nobody's ever seen before — they're building islands in the middle of the South China Sea for a massive military complex. Beyond runways. I mean, this is a complex. So what I'm saying is there's a tremendous lack of respect for our country. And I think for our leader.
I think he respects strength. Okay? I think Putin respects strength. And I've said it before, I think I will get along well with Putin. Now you never know. I don't say that – only a fool would say, “I will,” but I feel that I will get along well with Putin. I feel that if we can get along with more countries, that's a positive thing. That's not a bad thing. Some people — for instance, when Putin came out and he wanted to bomb the hell out of ISIS, we had people standing on the stage, we don't want that, we want. Let me tell you something. If we have somebody else dropping bombs that cost a half a million dollars a piece on the top — if we have somebody helping us, that's not so bad. You understand that. That's not so bad. But I had people that I'm running against saying, like, that was a terrible thing. It's not a terrible thing. We have a situation in Libya where a friend of mine is just saying, so, we had Gaddafi, he killed the terrorists, he ran his place. Not a good man. Same thing you could say with Iraq, with Saddam Hussein. Saddam Hussein was a plus-10 at killing terrorists, that's one thing. If our presidents would have gone away and gone to the beach, the Middle East would be a far better place than it is right now. I don't say it would be run by nice people, but you know, it would be a far better place. The mistakes we've made in the Middle East are so astronomical. Now here's the thing: ISIS is now. A friend of mine who's very much involved in the energy business, ISIS is controlling the oil now in Libya. How did we let that happen?
And by the way, that oil? That is a great oil, and it's a lot of oil. And they're controlling it.
Right.
Yeah, but see, that's not the getting. The getting, for me, is to make our country great again. The getting — that's just a part of it. The getting the position is not the real getting. For me, the getting is — and that's when I'll say, congratulations everyone, my job is finished. We will make our country financially strong again. When you have 19 I had a woman come up to me. A wonderful woman. I said this one or two times in the speech. She said, "Mr. Trump, I love you. You're so incredible. I'm voting for you 100 percent, but could you stop saying you're going to make our country rich again?" I said, "I understand what you're saying – it doesn't sound nice. But without being rich again, we can't be great again." I am going to make our country rich again. We are, the thing I didn't like about The Washington Post, they didn't put down my real statements as to Japan and everything else. They make it sound like I want Japan to have nuclear weapons. I don't. And by the way, other people have said this too. I don't mind taking care of Japan. But they have to help us out more, monetarily. We can't protect the entire world. You look at our military budget, it's massive compared to any other country. But what are we doing? We're taking care of the military needs of all these countries. And these countries are much richer than us. We're not a rich country. We're a debtor nation. We've got to get rid of — I talked about bubble. We've got to get rid of the $19 trillion in debt.
I think I could do it fairly quickly, because of the fact the numbers.
Well, I would say over a period of eight years. And I'll tell you why.
I don't think I'll need to. The power is trade. Our deals are so bad.
No, but I'm renegotiating all of our deals, Bob. The big trade deals that we're doing so badly on. With China, $505 billion this year in trade. We're losing with everybody. And a lot of those deals — a lot of people say, how could the politicians be so stupid? It's not that they're stupid. It's that they're controlled by lobbyists and special interests who want those deals to be made.
You're talking now again?
Let me give you this final answer, and then if you want we can meet again.
Phase two. We'll call it – at least treat me fairly in phase one, but phase two.
The coalition building begins — I believe — when it's decided who wins. Hopefully I'm going to win. The coalition building for me will be when I win. Vince Lombardi, I saw this. He was not a big man. And I was sitting in a place with some very, very tough football players. Big, strong football players. He came in — these are tough cookies — he came in, years ago — and I'll never forget it, I was a young man. He came in, screaming, into this place. And screaming at one of these guys who was three times bigger than him, literally. And very physical, grabbing him by the shirt. Now, this guy could've whisked him away and thrown him out the window in two seconds. This guy — the player — was shaking. A friend of mine. There were four players, and Vince Lombardi walked in. He was angry. And he grabbed — I was a young guy — he grabbed him by the shirt, screaming at him, and the guy was literally. And I said, wow. And I realized the only way Vince Lombardi got away with that was because he won. This was after he had won so much, okay? And when you have these coaches that are just as tough as him but they don't win, there's revolutions. Okay? Nobody. But Vince Lombardi was able to win, and he got — I have never seen anything like it. It was such a vivid impression. You had this big powerful guy, and you had Vince Lombardi, and he grabbed him by the shirt and he was screaming at him, he was angry at him.
No, to do that you have to win.
Yeah.
Okay, let me answer this way, because I think it will be a very positive ending. Because I agree with you. Ultimately, I will build a coalition. I think it's too soon. I really do. I think it's too soon. Now, I may be wrong. But this isn't something I needed to do. This is something I want to do. I want to give back, and I'll do a fantastic job. And I know politicians. I know them all. They're only talented at one thing: getting elected. Now, you have some that have certain assets, but they're talented at one thing: getting elected. Raising funds, and getting elected. Okay? And when I first ran, Charles Krauthammer said, and this was before I had run, and he was sitting there — I told you this story. He was sitting on Fox. And he said, this is one of the most talented fields of senators and governors and people running for office in the history of our country, and certainly since World War II. Now this is about two months before I'm announcing. And I'm saying to myself, wow. That's tough. You know, here's a guy who must know. It's tough. They also said I wouldn't run and I ran. But I said, wow, that's a big statement. I said, all right, but I'm doing it. Then I decide — top of the escalator — I said to my wife, come on, let's go. Deep breath, went down, did it. Okay. Now I've defeated those people, most of them. I've defeated them. And I say, really? Meaning to his statement. Really? Not a lot of talent.
Media treats me very unfairly, and very inaccurately.
Well, I think they're more interested in hits. I did a thing the other day with — on CNN — with Anderson Cooper. I don't know if you saw the rating. Give him the ratings, if you have it. Do you have the ratings?
They were through — I just got this. They were through the roof. Here. Mine was through the roof, meaning my hour was through the roof. Now, that's good and bad. The bad is they want to cover me too much, and they write things that maybe they shouldn't be writing. But those were phenomenal. Won the evening, beat everybody, et cetera, et cetera. My segment, not the other segments. The other segments did all right, but my segment was one of the highest-rated shows in a long time and beat everybody on cable — beat everybody on television that night. So you'll take a look. That's good and it's bad. The bad is they want to do nothing but cover me. They write stories that are — that don't even make sense. I'm just saying, I wish I could be covered accurately and fairly by the media.
Well, it could be some laziness. Today they want the clicks. In the old days they wanted the ratings, or they wanted to sell newspapers. Today they see if somebody clicks. So they do a story on me and they get clicks all over the place. They do a story on somebody else, it doesn't matter. All I can say is this. I wish I could be treated fairly by the media. And if I was treated fairly by the media, I think you would see a very big difference in coalition and coalition building and a lot of things. But with that being said, I'm not ready to do coalition building. But when I do — I tell that Vince Lombardi story — if and when I win, it will be really easy to build up a coalition. One other thing. I told you this. We are getting calls from so many people that you speak to, you speak to, that are saying, oh we don't like Trump, we've got to stop Trump. They're calling me. They're talking to you and they're calling me. Because they think I'm going to win.
Yeah, but we're already — look, we already have..hris came in, and Carson came in. We already have a lot of people. We are getting calls from people that you're writing about, or other people are writing about, and I'm telling you, names that you wouldn't believe. Bob, you — the greatest skeptic probably of all time — even more than you. That's only because he's older than you. He's seen more. People that you wouldn't even think about would be calling are calling. They want to make a deal. They want to come on board.
I can only say this: my whole life has been about winning. My whole life. I've won a lot. And one little example? This building. This was one of the most sought-after buildings in the history of the General Services Administration. Owned by them for many years. The landlord to the United States, right? Every major company — almost everybody — I don't have to —obviously, look, the best location in Washington. Right between the Capitol and the White House.
The best location, best building. The walls are four foot thick of solid granite. Amazing how they were able to lift it up. I mean, frankly, amazing. This is before they had cranes as we know them today. Unbelievable place. And it will be one of the great hotels in the world. Everybody wanted it. Every hotel company. Everybody. Pritzker wanted it. Who's closer to Obama than Pritzker? Hyatt wanted it. They had the Jewish Museum all lined up. They had everything all lined up..hey own Hyatt. Hyatt didn't get it. The reason I got it was because I have an unbelievable balance sheet - because they wanted to make sure it got done — and because of the fact that I had a great concept.
But think of it: I got it in the Obama administration.
And people say to me, Bob, how the hell did you get the most sought — after real estate asset perhaps in the history of the GSA — and you understand what I mean by that.
You know, they have land in the middle of nowhere, nobody cares about it. They say, how did you get the most sought-after asset perhaps in the history of the GSA?
Well don't forget, they've been concerned about that 10 times during the course of this last.
They will be loved. At the right time, they will be loved.
Yeah, I know.
No, at the right time I want them in.
I just think it's early.
I'd be capable of doing it. I just think it's.
I will.
And some of the people that are calling me — and maybe I should be calling them — but some of the people that are calling me and calling him, in all fairness, and calling others, too. One called you. But some of these people that are well-known, and people you've — that would be very interesting to you. These people want in. And I'm taking them in. They're going to come in.
Yeah. Because to a certain extent, I should be calling them, they shouldn't have to be calling me.
You're right.
And I'm going to be doing that very soon.
Well, we had a good meeting this morning for foreign policy, you know, and we've had some pretty good meetings.
No, at the right time. You know, it's an interesting statement that Bob.
No?
I should be calling them.
And I will be calling them. As soon as I feel that time is right.
Sure, sure. I've been a very political person all my life.
I've been on the other side, but still I've been very political.
Well, I've gotten unbelievable political things done: zoning. This building. Bob, how did I get this building?
Well first of all, I do call some people that have just lost. Meaning, you know, they supported Rubio, they supported this. And we've dealt with. Honestly, a lot of people are calling me, but I should be calling them. And in a pretty near distance, right now, already, I'm going to start calling them. But I love the point you're making. This is a point that you're making, but it's a point I agree with. I should be calling.
Yeah. They don't know how to get in.
And then they get vicious. At the right point, I'm going to be calling them. One thing I'm going to do.
I will be call.hat's a very good case, I better not tell you that. I'll let you know when I make it. Okay?
One quick thing I'm going to do, a lot of people are saying, oh, the judges..o me, the judges — because there's going to be a lot of them in these next four years. We've got one already that was unexpected in Scalia. So the judges are going to be important. You're going to have either super-liberal judges, or you're going to have conservative judges. So important. They don't know me well enough. Well, what kind of judges? I'm going to do something. It was my idea, and I think it was a good idea. And I spoke to Senator Sessions and I spoke to other people, and I'm getting names. The Federalist people. Some very good people. The Heritage Foundation. I'm getting names, and I'm going to submit a list of about 10 names, 10 or 12 names, as judges. I'm going to announce that these are the judges, in no particular order, that I'm going to put up. And I'm going to guarantee it. I'm going to tell people. Because people are worried that, oh, maybe he'll put the wrong judge in. Like people — my sister is on the court of appeals. Very smart. She's a very smart, very highly respected person. Very smart.
You know what?
She's fantastic. She's the exact opposite of me. People say, is she really your sister? She's a brilliant person. Highly respected. When the press calls, I say, listen, they want to do a great story. They actually had a nice story about her in The Washington Post recently. But she doesn't want to talk to the press, because she feels as a judge she should not be speaking to the press. Something very nice about that. She's right.
As a judge. No, but as a judge.
Oh, as a reporter. But there's something nice about that. She feels.
Bob, I've been hit very hard.
It's possible, but I don't think so. I've been here before.
Don't forget, I've been hit hard. I went in one of 17 and they hit me harder than anybody. And I hit back very hard. Harder than they hit me. Jeb: low energy. Little Marco. Names that were devastating. I think the low energy Jeb, all of a sudden you see him running down the street to try and show he's got high energy. And it wasn't him, and it became worse. I hit back very hard. I am telling you, almost all of these people that you would never think would ever – will want to come on board. But I've got to win first. That's why I told you that Vince Lombardi story. Because I think it's a great story. Anyway, I have to go. Let's do it again.
Just treat me fairly. Treat me fairly..ctually the truth is these were very interesting. Nobody has asked me these questions.

Yeah. I think I see a big parallel. I think people really — I think people really see a big parallel. A lot of people are talking about that, and not only the United States, but other countries.

People want to take their country back. They want to have independence, in a sense, and you see it with Europe, all over Europe. You're going to have more than just — in my opinion, more than what happened last night, you're going to have, I think many other cases where they want to take their borders back. They want to take their monetary back.

They want to take a lot of things back. They want to be able to have a country again. So, I think you're going have this happen more and more. I really believe that, and I think it's happening in the United States.

It's happening by the fact that I've done so well in the polls. You look at the recent polling, and you look at the swing states and you see how I'm doing, and I haven't even started my campaign yet, essentially.

I mean, we've — we've done very well. We're raising a lot of money for the Republican Party. I'm going to be funding a lot myself, but we're raising a lot of money, John, for the Republican Party. And you'll see those numbers come out in the next — over the next 30 days, and in particular, 60 days.

The numbers that were put out last week were a very start — that was a very small of time just to start. But we have raised a lot of money, especially money coming in in small — from small donors. You'll be amazed when you see the kind of numbers we're talking about, because we were amazed and I was amazed. But that will be reported fairly soon.

But I really do see a parallel between what's happening in the United States and what's happening here. People want to see borders. They don't necessarily want people pouring into their country that they don't know who they are and where they come from. They have no idea.

And I think, you know, it — not only did it win, but it won by a much bigger margin than people thought it would happen.

Yeah, you just have to embrace it. It's will of the people. You know, it's not a question of approaching it. It's the will of the people. It's always the will of the people. Ultimately that wins out.

Right. Well, nobody knows. Look, if the pound goes down, they're going to do more business. You know, when the pound goes down, more people are coming to Turnberry, frankly. And the pound has gone down, and let's see what the impact of that has, but I think places like Scotland and England and different places, in Great Britain, I think you're going to see a lot of — a lot of activity.

Trump on Brexit: 'More people are coming to Turnberry'  Play Video0:39
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump said at a news conference June 24 that if Britain leaving the E.U. devalues the British pound, "different places in Great Britain I think you're going to see a lot of activity." (Reuters)
The pound got high, and people weren't able to do maybe what they wanted to do, but for traveling and for other things, you know, I think it could very well turn out to be a positive.

Nobody really knows. You'll know in five years, you'll be able to analyze it, and maybe it will take longer than that, but what is known is that they've taken back their independence. And that's a very, very important thing.

Yeah, Katie?

Are you huddling with them to find out what the best way...

Well, I've been in touch with them, but there's nothing to talk about. You know, I've been saying I would prefer what happened. Thing. I thought this would be a good thing, I think it will turn out to be a good thing. Maybe not short term, not, but ultimately I think it will be a good thing.

And I've actually been in touch. And some, by the way, don't like it, and some do like it. You know, they're advisers, they're like everybody else. They probably know less, every one of these advisers.

Somebody said, "Gee, you should use advisers that have been really hot the last five years." I said, "Really? I think I want to use ones that haven't been involved." Take a look at what has happened in the world.

Go ahead, Katie.

Will they still be the first call for you, for the U.S., when seeking help?

Well — well, I don't know, first call or second call, they will be a very powerful call, that's going to be a great relationship. They'll be great allies, they always have been. And I think zero will change on that score. There has never been a better ally, and I think nothing will change on that score, Katie.

Well, President Obama did say, I guess that they should move to the back of the line. Now, that wouldn't happen with me. The U.K. has been such a great ally for so long, they'll be always at the front of the line. They've been amazing allies in good times and in bad times.

And sometimes they make mistakes together, but they — as we know, but always been great allies. So — so, I will tell you, I think that I was very surprised when I heard President Obama say that, and I think he said that because he thought for sure it was going to stay together, but it didn't stay together.

And I felt it wouldn't stay together, and again, I think that's what's happening in the United States. It's not staying together. It's a really positive force taking place. They want to take their country back. The people want their country back. We don't want to lose our jobs, we don't want to lose our borders.

They want to have wage increases. They haven't in the United States, folks. For members — and all of my members at Turnberry, I mean, we've had hard-working, great people that haven't were a real wage increase in 18 years. So they're working harder now and they're making less money.

So — go ahead?

Are you worried about that at all?

Yeah, Sarah (ph), they don't know. I mean, look, we're going to have to see how it plays out.

What I like is that I love to see people take their country back. And that's really what's happening in the United States. And I think you see that. And that's what's happening in many other places in the world. They're tired of it. They want to take their countries back, and you know, this isn't such a phenomenal — like some people are saying.

And when people asked me what I thought was going to happen, as you know, I said, "I think they're going to break way." And it has turned out that way, and it was little bit surprising, because the polls indicated, probably, that it wouldn't happen, 80 percent.

And when I landed this morning, the first thing I asked is that. And I mean it was fairly close, but it wasn't that close. So we'll see what happens.

I think it will be a good thing. You're taking your country back, you're going to let people that you want into your country, and people that you don't want, or people that you don't think are going to be appropriate for your country, or good for your country, you're not going to have to take.

And you know, look, Europe, like the United States, has made tremendous mistakes over the last period of time. You look at Germany, you look at some of the things that are happening. There have been tremendous mistakes that have been made.

So, I think it's going to end up being a very good thing, but it will take time.

Yeah, Tom?

It's a good question.

If I said, "Yes, total influence," — they'll say, "That's terrible, his ego is terrible," right? So I will never say that, Tom. I would like to give you that one, but I can't say it.

You know, look, the question was, what do I think? And I gave my opinion a few times over the last few months, but I also said, I really don't people to listen to it because it's not me, it's about them. It's about them it's their country.

My opinion is that what happened should have happened. I think they will end up being strong for it, and they'll control their country, and they'll control everything about their country.

Yes?

Well, I like David Cameron and he had a couple of rough statements, but that's okay.

I think David Cameron is a good man. He was wrong on this. He didn't get the mood of his country right. He was surprised. I think he was very surprised to see what happened but he is a good man and he felt that way. And probably did the right thing but we'll see what happens. I like David Cameron.

Yes sir?

Do you think following your argument about sovereignty, do you think Scotland should have it's independence? Would you support that?

Well, that's up to the people of Scotland. You know, we've been through this. And really, again, I leave it up to the people.

I love the people of Scotland. That's why I built in Aberdeen in one of the great golf courses of the world. It was up to judge to be the greatest course ever built new. New is being defined as form 1960 to present. You know, we're very proud of it.

I've gotten to know the people of Scotland so well and you know, through my mother and through everything else. The people of Scotland are amazing people. You know, that question really has to be addressed to the people. It was a very, very close vote.

I don't know if people want to go through that again. I was here when people were going through that vote. I didn't take sides, but I will tell you, it was a nasty period. And I can't imagine they go through that again, but the people of Scotland may speak differently.

Yes sir?

Well, it looks like it's on it's way. We'll see what happens.

I can tell you, I have a lot of friends living in Germany that have always been very proud Germans to a level that you wouldn't believe. They would be bragging about their country. They would be talking about their country as though there would be no place.

They're members of Mar-a-Lago and different places that I have. Now, those same people, some of them are saying they're leaving Germany, they're moving. They never even thought of moving but now they're thinking about moving because of the tremendous influx of people. And you know what's happening Germany, it's a real problem.

These are people that were very proud Germans that were beyond belief, they thought the greatest that there ever was and now they're talking about leaving Germany. And you see the problems in German. So I could see it happening. I have no opinion really, but I could certainly see it happening.

I saw this happening. I could read what was happening. And I could see things happening Germany. I hope they straighten the situation because it can really become a nasty — it can be very nasty. What's going on can be very, very nasty.

Building safe-zones in Syria, great idea. Building safe zones magnificent, big safe as can be. But when you're taking them into the United States by the thousands and we don't know who they are, when you're taking them into Germany and other countries -- all you have to do is look around. Look around the world, see what's happening? It's some real problems.

Well, you unite people by having a happy country.

And when people pour into the country and it doesn't work, whether it's because of crime or various other things, you're not going to be uniting anybody. I just told you about Germany where people want to leave Germany. People there that I would never in a million years say that these people want to leave, but they're going to be leaving. So you can't unite a country by forcing things down to peoples' throat. And that's what happened here, people are not happy.

Yes sir?

Well, you know, if anything, I have big investments over in Europe.

I have — as you know, I own Dunebeg in Ireland, which is a phenomenal hotel. It's one of the most beautiful hotels. It's one of the most highly rated hotels in all of Europe and it's got a golf course on this large, five — almost 500-acre parcel of land, on the Atlantic Ocean, and does great.

I own Turnberry, I own Aberdeen. I'm going to go stop at Aberdeen for a little while; I'm actually leaving — I'll only be here for one night, because I have to go back and campaign, which I actually love doing, to be honest with you. But I wanted to — really, I wanted to support my children, who have really poured their hearts and souls into this development.

So — but — but you know, I think you understand. Yes, go ahead.

Yeah. Because you know why I'm here? Because I support my children.

OK, next. Yeah, Tom, go ahead.

Right.

Yeah, I don't like doing it. I don't like doing it, Tom.

I mean, again, I'm an honest politician, probably one of the few. Tom's asking, does it bother me to — when you're raising money — and again, Tom, I'm raising this money for the Republican Party. It's something I've never done.

I've always contributed money to lots of people. A lot of campaign contributions over the years. And once I ran, I became like an outsider. But I — no, I don't like doing that, but I have done it, and we've had amazing weeks.

Last week I was in Houston, as you know. We had tremendous lines. Made a speech also and the lines were — actually on ABC they reported, ABC Local, they followed the lines all the way to the highways. It was actually it's — I've never seen anything like that, and then Dallas where we had a similar thing.

But we also had fund-raisers and I've really never done. You know, I sit with 20 people, and we talk, and they all hand you checks, bing, bing, bing, and they're checks to the RNC and the Republican Party, and I feel I have an obligation to do that.

And, Tom, the numbers are going to be, I think quite staggering, especially in July. In fact, Steve Mnuchin is here someplace. Steve?

Are we doing well, Steve, huh? He's one of their great financiers of the country, actually, and I chose him, and he — he wanted to do this, and the numbers are staggering.

Don't forget, we just sort of started this process a few weeks ago, and the first filing was for a very limited period of time, and it was almost before we started, and — but the numbers are amazing. Actually, the numbers for the small donations, we've taken a lot of money otherwise, but the numbers for the small donations are coming in at — I mean, it's beyond anything what — that we thought.

You know, the $20, $50 and $100 donations. But we'll report in June, but especially the July report, I think, will show you some pretty massive numbers.

I'll do it. Well, I just did it the other day. I matched. Right? I put up $2 million, and I say, you know, let's see who's going to go, and we've raised more than $2. But I guess I offered a $2 million incentive for people to put up money. And I don't know if that was the reason, but we had a tremendous response to that, so.

David?

I know, David. You don't even have to say. David, go ahead.

Well, she has always misread everything.

I mean — no, if you think. She has misread this. And I was surprised that she was so bold and to say — well, the only reason she did it is because Obama wanted it. You know, if Obama wanted it the other way, if he said leave, she would have said leave.

She does whatever he wants her to. Now, you know why, but that's okay, we don't have to get into that. But — but I actually was actually very surprised that President Obama would have come here and he would have been so bold as to tell the people over here what to do, and I think that a lot of people don't like him and a lot of people voted — I think if he had — if he had not said it, I think your result might have been different.

But when he said it, people were not happy about it, and I thought it was totally inappropriate. And when I said what I said, I told people, I said, don't do I'm saying necessarily, do whatever you think, but this was just my opinion.

He came in and really tried to convince people to stay. And I thought it was inappropriate, and then she doubled down and she did the same thing. And obviously, for the 219th time, they were wrong. They're always wrong. And that's the problem with them.

Yes, sir?

I don't know him. I don't know him. I'm sure he'll be good. He got it right. So that gives him an advantage, but I don't know him.

I really don't think so.

First of all, Corey was fantastic and we did a great job with a some are small group of people. I say this to all the folks here that don't come from the United States, I ran a campaign in the primaries where we got the largest number of votes in the history of the Republican Party, primary votes. Larger than Ronald Reagan. Larger than Richard Nixon. Larger than Dwight D. Eisenhower, who helped win the World War II. And we ran a very lean campaign, and I had fewer people, and I spent less money and I funded the money myself. I spent $55 million, something like that.

STAFF: I think it was $45 million.

And by the way, I'm forced — you know, legally, I have to pay myself back. If I use — this has nothing to do with the campaign. You won't see this, I'm to support my children. But if I use one of my resorts in the United states and we have a press conference or something, by law, I have to pay myself back. I would like not to. I would like to just say, "use the ballroom, don't bother with it." A couple have people said, "pay." By law you have to pay yourself back.

I think this — I think that we should have been given credit for, in addition to winning — for winning with less money spent and with the smallest staff. So now we have a staff of 73 people. Hillary has a staff of 900 people. I won and she won. I don't think that we — I mean, honestly as a businessman, I say, "Wow, he won spending less money and a smaller staff." See, I view that as an advantage.

A lot of pundits say, she has a much bigger staff." I think we're very nimble. I think we're very nimble. I think we're doing well. You've seen the polls comes out, they're very close and very equal. We just had one coming out think from West Virginia where I have a 25-point lead, and North Carolina came out yesterday, a two- point lead. Ohio's even, Pennsylvania's even. The national polls are getting very close. I'm spending much less money. She's spending tremendous amounts of money and we haven't even started yet. So it's going to be very interesting because she spent, what was it? $28 million? She spent a lot of money, and we're even. And that's a good sign — and I think that's a good sign.

When I won New Hampshire I spent a tiny fraction of what other candidates spent, one in particular. I won New Hampshire by a landslide. That person came in seventh. I think, you know, when you can do it on a smaller budget, and with fewer people, that's the kind of person they want to be the president, because to me that's a big thing.

Yes, go ahead, sir?

I will do that.

I will do that.

Well, I don't think it matters while I'm running. While I'm running it doesn't matter. Again, I'm here for the sole reason, though I did want to see the job Eric did because if he didn't do a good job he wouldn't be standing here. I would give him a hard time. Right? He did a beyond job. Beyond, this is phenomenal.

And just as you view this great course you have to see the hotel we built. Phenomenal — phenomenal.

I will absolutely cut ties. You know, the rules are, nobody knows. Okay? It's never had to — where somebody has this big a business and runs for president and wins. If I win, even though I don't have to do that I would probably put everything in trust. My children will run it along with my executives. It's a big company. My children will run it along with my executives, and just do a good job running it.

Let me tell you, the importance of the opportunity that I may be given is so important and so massive. Making great trade deals with China and with you, folks, by the way, but with China, the numbers are so staggering. When you look at trade deficits of $400 billion and $500 billion a year, the numbers are so staggering and incredible. I wouldn't even be thinking about the business. I mean, who cars? I would actually say, who cares? I would absolutely — you don't have to do this but I would most likely put it in a blind trust and they would run it or something.

My properties — number one, I have the best properties. Okay? You can say that.

I will say, a lot the of the press has said, "whether you like them or not, there's no properties like that." I have the best properties and you don't get to see that otherwise, but I have the best properties.

And the other thing is, why should I use somebody else's properties? Number one, they're not as good and number two, it's one of those things. I wish, frankly, I wasn't forced by law to pay myself back. We're forced to pay. You do understand that, sir? A couple of people said, "He's paying to his campaign." I'm not paying to my campaign.

I would love to give everything for nothing. By law, I'm forced — whatever the fair market value of a ballroom is, or whatever it may that we use, or an airplane. As an example, if I use an airplane, by law, I have to pay it back. And that's what I do, and that's reflected in the filings.

Jeremy?

Well, he — he didn't stop it at the water's edge, because he made statements about this incredible part of the world. And that this particular country, and frankly, a large group of countries should do — I mean, he's — he's constantly dictating to the world what they should do.

The world does listen to him. Obviously, you can see that by the vote, but he's constantly dictating to other countries. So, you know, certainly, it doesn't stop at the water's edge with him.

And you know, very importantly, he got it totally wrong. And he's embarrassed. I mean, he's embarrassed by the Supreme Court decision yesterday, which was a real rebuke, and he's very embarrassed by — he got involved. I don't know if that was through a friendship with David Cameron. It could have been.

And I understand friendship, and I can understand why he did it. I can understand that. But I think it's something he shouldn't have done. It's not his country, it's not his part of the world. He shouldn't have done it, and I actually think that his recommendation perhaps caused it to fail.

Okay, one more — one more question.

Yes?

Well, I think a lot of it is, but I think a lot of it's borders, I think a lot of it is immigration. I think I speak — spoken. I mean, I have so many members here, hundreds and hundreds of members sitting in the back, and I've spoken to them and they're not happy with the people flowing into the country. They don't want that to happen. And I think that has a lot to do with it.

I really think the borders, you know, it's not so different. It's amazing the way the world is not so different. We're on the other side of the ocean, but the world is not so different. We're right over there, you go many, many miles right in that direction.

And to be honest with you, I think a lot of it has to do with immigration, but I also think a lot of it has to do with the fact that they wanted to be independent. They got tired of seeing stupid decisions, just like the American people are tired of seeing stupid decisions. Whether it's the Iran deal, whether it's the border where people just flow across the border like Swiss cheese.

They're tired of seeing stupid decisions made. They're tired of looking at horrible trade deals. And you have bad trade deals here, too. And so, I think — I think that has a lot to do with it.

Well, I think the Brexit deal, I think when you talk about leave, you know, I felt, again, knowing the people here very well, but not wanting to get involved, but I felt that that was going to happen. I felt it was going to happen, and there is great similarities between what happened here and my campaign.

Yeah. People want to take their country back. Okay. Maybe one more question.

Well, I almost delayed this. You know, by the way, they said there were going to be 2,000 protesters. There turned out — we counted them — 43. Forty-three, and they're way over there. The police did a great job, but there were — it was nothing much to do, frankly.

There were 43, just on the record, because we heard there were going to be thousands of protesters — 43. And my members are very happy with Donald Trump, I can tell you. Is that a correct statement? They love Donald Trump.

So — no, and they love what we've done here. And you know, this is a little bit what we're going to do to the United States. You know, the United States has rotted infrastructure, we have roads that are crumbling.

I have a friend who's a trucker, a big trucker, one of the biggest in the world, actually. And he said, he buys these brand-new, magnificent trucks that cost hundreds of thousands of dollars, and he's never had this problem before. They're just getting destroyed, because the highways are loaded up with potholes.

And when you have an 18-wheeler or 16-wheeler, and you have big, massive trucks, and they're being — you know, going down a highway at 65 miles an hour, and they hit a pothole and they are loaded up with tons of stuff, he said those trucks, no matter how good they are, they get wiped out.

And that's what's happening to our country. And I thin this is sort of a mini example, what we've done here. The members love us, Scotland loves us for what we've done. The council — our council member here, do we have council members here?

Yes. The council has been so incredible and you know, it has just been a big love fest. What we do is, the United States needs its infrastructure fixed. You know, the bridges are a disaster. The roads are a disaster.

My friend told me. He said, he's never had a problem like this before. He said, you go down the highways in a brand-new truck that costs hundreds of thousands of dollars is virtually it's destroyed. They have to bring it back and have it rehauled, because they're hitting potholes all over the place on highways. Our infrastructure is crumbling in the United States.

And we spent probably, if you add it up now, $4 trillion, maybe more than in the Middle East, and we have a problem.

It's not.
Well, thank you very much and I'm thrilled to be back at CPAC with thousands of great and true American patriots, and that's what you are. I want to start by thanking Matt and Mercedes Schlapp and everyone at the American Conservative Union. Thank you, Matt, for hosting this wonderful event. It really has been something over the years. I also want to, we have so many people here, I'm going to leave out some, but they'll understand. We have a lot of Congress, a lot of Senate, a lot of everything, but we'll do a few words and a few names. Diana Harshbarger, thank you, Diana, Congresswoman. Mike Collins, Elise Stefanik, I call her the rocket ship. Where is Elise? She's a rocket. Thank you, Elise. Jason Smith, a friend of mine, great guy. Thank you, Jason. Wesley Hunt, Cory Mills, Dr. Ronny Jackson. He's a doctor, he's an admiral. Where's Ronny Jackson? He said I'm the healthiest man ever to be president by far. Said, if I wouldn't eat junk food, I'd live 200 years. Where is he? He's the greatest. We love you, Ronny.

He had a lot of things under his belt. Another one who's a serious character, but a great guy. You got to know him. He's a great guy. Matt Gates. Where's Matt? Thank you, Matt. Great guy. He's a brave guy. And another brave person, she started off very slow, very, very slow. She's a low-key person, Marjorie Taylor Greene. Where is Marjorie? Thank you. Thank you, Marjorie. A good location, Marge. A friend of mine, a man who's terrific, almost won for governor of New York. Could have done it, but so many people have moved out of New York, it gets tougher. But he's a terrific guy, a great lawyer too, and he is a strong guy. He stopped somebody coming at him with a knife. I don't know. He grabbed that guy's hand, he looked pretty tough, and he drove him to the ground. Lee Zeldin, where's Lee? Where's Lee? Hi, Lee. Thank you. Good job, Lee. West Virginia attorney general Patrick Morrissey. Patrick, thank you, Patrick. Thank you. Thank you, Patrick.

Ohio attorney general Dave Yost. Thank you, Dave. Former acting attorney general of the United States, Matt Whitaker, Matt. A friend of mine who knows the border, knows more about illegal immigration than the next 10 people combined, Stephen Miller. Steven, hi, Steve. Great, good to have you here. One of my favorite generals, a guy who's just great. He's got a lot of common sense and a lot of smarts. And he's been doing a lot of television lately and he does a fantastic job, General Keith Kellogg. Thank you, Keith. A very popular man in South America, very, very popular in Brazil, the former president of Brazil. President Bolsonaro, a great honor.

I don't know, you beat all these US politicians. That's pretty good. And his son, who's a friend of mine, Brazilian chamber of deputies, Eduardo Bolsonaro. Hi, Eduardo. Great job you're doing. Just got reelected. And somebody that we really like in this room, I think. I certainly like a lot. He had a lot of courage, very smart guy, James O'Keefe. Where's James? Where is James? Thank you, James. Good guy. As we gather today, our country and our movement, the greatest political movement in the history of our country, as nobody going to even question it, even the fake news media. That's a lot of fake news back there. And by the way, I want to thank the fire department. Look at these people. They're up the rafters. Thank you, fire department. But the greatest in our history, most important battle in our lives is taking place right now as we speak. For seven years, you and I have been engaged in an epic struggle to rescue our country from the people who hate it and want to absolutely destroy it.

The sinister forces trying to kill America have done everything they can to stop me, to silence you, and to turn this nation into a socialist dumping ground for criminals, junkies, Marxists, thugs, radicals, and dangerous refugees that no other country wants. No other country wants them. If those opposing us succeed, our once beautiful USA will be a failed country that no one will even recognize. A lawless, open borders, crime-ridden, filthy, communist nightmare. That's what it's going and that's where it's going. I used to say that we will never be a socialist country. I said it oftentimes. I said it once at the State of the Union address and people didn't understand what I was saying. But I'd shout it out loud and I was right because that train has passed the station long ago of socialism. It never even came close to stopping, frankly.

We're now in a Marxism state of mind, a communism state of mind, which is far worse. We're a nation in decline. Our enemies are desperate to stop us because they know that we are the only ones who can stop them. They know that this room is so important, the people in this room. They know that we can defeat them. They know that we will defeat them. But they're not coming after me, they're coming after you and I'm just standing in their way. That's all I'm doing. I'm standing in their way. And that's why I'm here today. That's why I'm standing before you, because we are going to finish what we started. We started something that was America. We're going to complete the mission. We're going to see this battle through to ultimate victory. We're going to make America great again. With you at my side, we will demolish the deep state. We will expel the warmongers. They are people that don't get it, although, in some cases, they get it. They get it for their wallets, but we can't do that. We can't let that happen. We will drive out the globalists, we will cast out the communists. We will throw off the political class that hates our country. They actually hate our country. No walls, no borders, bad elections, no voter ID. We will beat the Democrats. We will route the fake news media. We will expose and appropriately deal with the rhinos. We will evict Joe Biden from the White House. And we will liberate America from these villains and scoundrels once and for all. When we started this journey, a journey like there has never been before, there's never been anything like this. We had a Republican Party that was ruled by freaks, neocons, globalists, open border zealots, and fools. But we are never going back to the party of Paul Ryan, Karl Rove, and Jeb Bush.

We're not going back to people that want to destroy our great social security system, even some in our own party, I wonder who that might be, that want to raise the minimum age of social security to 70, 75, or even 80 in some cases. And that are out to cut Medicare to a level that it will no longer be recognizable. And when that was their original thought, that's what they always come back to. Remember that. You have to remember that. You heard it here first. We are never going back to a party that wants to give unlimited money to fight foreign wars that are endless wars, that are stupid wars. But at the same time, demands that we cut veterans benefits and retirement benefits at home.

Our soldiers will no longer live in the streets of our city. We have cities where our soldiers, our great soldiers, are living on concrete, they're living on asphalt. We will take care of our soldiers. There has never been a time like this. Illegal immigrants come in and we house them in the Waldorf Astoria and many other of the greatest hotels anywhere in the world. But our soldiers, we do nothing for them. They sleep out at night and they freeze. They freeze in the cold and they die in the heat, while people that came into our country illegally are in beautiful hotel suites, perhaps watching us on television right now. We were taking care of our soldiers just a short while ago, but we don't do that anymore. But we'll start doing it again. Our soldiers are very special to us. When a wonderful town in Ohio has difficulty, we are going to take care of that town, that city, that village prior to worrying about the rest of the world.

We're taking care of the problems of the rest of the world that they're not taking care of themselves. They have us put up the money. You know what I'm talking about. If you look at Ukraine, and we all feel so badly about it, but why isn't NATO putting up dollar for dollar with us? We put up $140 billion and they put up just a tiny fraction of that. And we all want to see success, but it's far more important to them than it is to us because of that location. We are never going to be a country ruled by entrenched political dynasties in both parties. Rotten special interests, China-loving politicians, of which there are many. You listening to this, Mitch McConnell? You listening? And a militant left wing news media that's either frightened of telling the truth or is truly evil and bad. I don't know. I think in many ways they're frightened, but you never really know which. We are not going back to this mindset, not now, not ever, not ever.

And thank you, Mark Levin, for being here tonight. Thank you very much. And Julie. Thank you. Thank you, Mark. Very important voice. Stay healthy, Mark. We can't lose you. Just stay healthy. Stay healthy, Mark. We're not going to lose you. In 2016, we took away the power of this corrupt political class. And we did more in four years than any administration in the history of our country, if you look at what we did. We shut down the illegal foreign invasion on our borders and achieved the most secure border in US history. We deported illegal criminal aliens by the tens of thousands. MS-13, taking them out by the thousands. We set records every single week, we were cleaning up our country. I smashed the false idols of the free trade fanatics. These are fools or they're getting very rich, probably the second. And left the China lobby reeling from our historic tariffs and taxes that we charge them, bringing in hundreds of billions of dollars pouring into our treasury from China.

Thank you very much, China. When no other president had gotten even 25 cents, not one president got anything from them. Our trade deficits were five, six, $700 billion a year. A billion, think of it, dollars a year. Not sustainable by any country. They built their military and they have a very powerful military with the money that we gave them. How stupid are we? I was the only president in modern history who did not have any new wars, no new wars. I finished some old ones. I finished some old ones. Remember when the Democrats and my Republican opponents would often look at me during the debates or whatever and they'd say, "No, no. He's going to bring us into World War III because it's a personality type." They said I had the personality. No, I had the personality type that kept us out of wars because people knew that they weren't going to mess around with us.

That's why I rebuilt our military. We were strong, we were safe. And I told delinquent foreign nations, they were delinquent, they weren't paying their bills, that if they wanted our protection, they had to pay up and they had to pay up now. And they did. They paid $ 450 billion as soon as I said, "No, I won't be protecting you if you don't pay." We truly had a policy of peace through strength. This was a serious, powerful policy. And we didn't have to lose our loved ones fighting wars in countries that nobody's ever heard of. I stood firm against the forces of anarchy and decay. I arrested the Marxists to topple statues of our great heroes in Washington, DC. We arrested them. They were knocking down the most beautiful artwork, the most beautiful statues of great heroes. They didn't even know who they were doing. They just wanted anarchy. And I passed and signed an executive order. Anybody that that gets 10 years in jail with no negotiation. It's not 10, but it turns into three months.

And it's an incredible thing that stopped right away. They were heading to the Jefferson Memorial. They wanted to take out Thomas Jefferson. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think we're going to let that happen. But we passed it. It was a very old law that we founded. One of my very good legal people, along with Steven Miller, they found it. They said, "sir, I don't know if you want to try and bring this back." I said, "I do." And as soon as we passed it, that was the end that just stopped. It's amazing. It's a miracle. We banned transgender insanity from our military and signed the world's first ban on critical race theory long before anybody had even heard of the term. It was all banned, everything was good.

When Biden came back in, this guy came in and he put everything right back in place where it was. We were paying these people hundreds of thousands of dollars a year in salary among our highest paid people to teach all of this nonsense to our military yet. But it was all out, it was all done. There's only one president in history who has ever taken on the entire corrupt establishment in Washington. And when we win in 2024, we will do it again even stronger, faster, and better, because… now I am experienced and I know the people of Washington. I didn't know them. I was from New York. I only came here 17 times, they said. I read that in the fake news, so probably it's not true, but it's the best I could do. And I never stayed over. I was from New York. But I now know the good ones, the bad ones, the weak ones, the strong ones. I know them all. I know the people that have to do the job and can do the job. A lot of them are in this room right now.

And as I did for four incredible years, I will put America first every single time, every single day. From the beginning, we have been attacked by a sick and sinister opposition, the radical left communists, the bureaucrats, the fake news media, the big money special interests, the corrupt Democrat prosecutors. Oh, they're after me for so many things. Oh, those prosecutors. Some are racists. Some hate our country. They all hate me. They'll get me for anything, anything. You put a comma in this paragraph. Why did you do that? I don't really know. The partisan and often corrupt intelligence agencies, the George Soros money machine that spends a lot of money on the prosecutors, by the way. The Antifa thugs who are allowed to roam the streets while we have people that in many cases are great patriots, great, great patriots, sing prayers every night, playing our national anthem every day. And they're sitting in a jail nearby, rotting away, and being treated so unfairly like nobody's probably ever been treated in this country before, except maybe me.

And Marjorie, you've been so fantastic on that issue. Where's Marjorie? You've been so fantastic on that issue. And Elise and Matt, people that love our country, people that love our country have been so great on that issue. And the perverts who use the names of Washington and Lincoln to buy millions of dollars in ads to say bad, lifeless, and incorrect things about us. I didn't know this was a rally, Matt. It really is a rally. And by the way, thank you for that beautiful straw poll. That was a big win, thank you. Our enemies are lunatics and maniacs. They cannot stand that they do not own me. I don't need them. I don't need anything about them. I don't need their money. They cannot steer me, they cannot shake me, and they will never, ever control me. And they will never, ever, therefore, control you.

At the end of the day, anyone else will be intimidated, bought off, blackmailed, or ripped to shreds. I alone will never retreat. And that is why we must stand together and charge. We have to charge full speed ahead. I had a beautiful life before I did this. I lived in luxury. I had everything. People said to me, "Are you sure you want to do it, sir?" I said, "Oh, this will be so amazing." What the hell did you get me into? I didn't know the word subpoena. I didn't know the word grand jury, those words, grand jury. I didn't know that they want to lynch you for doing nothing wrong. I didn't know they want to lynch you for doing a great job. I didn't know they want to put you away because your poll numbers are better than anybody they've seen in years.

And then they go with the disinformation campaign. First of all, we're leading every Republican by massive numbers. And very importantly, perhaps more importantly, we're leading Biden by a lot, and we're leading Kamala by a lot. And every time the polls go up higher and higher, the prosecutors get crazier and crazier. We got to stop these guys. Says, "We have to stop Trump now. We got to stop him now because we can't stop him at the ballot box." They tried that in 2016. How did that work out? Not too good. And we actually, and I have to say this, I hope Fox doesn't turn up, but we did much better in 2020 than we did in 2016, much better.

But We have no choice. If we don't do this, our country will be lost forever. People are tired of rhinos and globalists. They want to see America first. That's what they want. It's not too complicated. This is the final battle. They know it, I know it, you know it, everybody knows it. This is it. Either they win or we win. And if they win, we no longer have a country. And I promise you this, if you put me back in the White House, that beautiful building, but I live in very beautiful buildings, it's not that reason. The beautiful. That building wasn't the easiest building to live in with what I was put through. And I get a lot of credit. A lot of people say, "How do you do it, sir?" I had a man come up to me the other day, one of the toughest, strongest people that you can imagine. You all know his name, big businessman, a lot of money, a lot of success, tough as hell.

And he said, "Could I ask you a question, president?" A friend of mine, used to call me Donald, now he calls me president. "Could I ask you a question, president?" "What?" "How do you do it? How do you do it every day? They sent you subpoenas every day. There're after you. They're looking to take you down at levels that nobody's ever put up with before." Seven years I've gone through this. We beat them all, but it continues. And he said to me, "Seriously, how do you do it? I could never do it." This is one of the toughest guys. I said, "Maybe you could." He said, "Nope, I couldn't do it. I couldn't get out of bed in the morning. But I do it for you, and that's what I'm doing it for. I do it for you." Thank you. Thank you very much. And if you put me back in the White House, their reign is over. Their reign will be over, and they know it. And America will be a free nation once again. We're not a free nation right now. We don't have free press. We don't have free anything. In 2016, I declared I am your voice. Today, I add I am your warrior, I am your justice. And for those who have been wronged and betrayed, I am your retribution. I am your retribution. Not going to let this happen. Not going to let it happen. I will totally obliterate the deep state. I will fire…
I will fire the unelected bureaucrats and shadow forces who have weaponized our justice system like it has never been weaponized before, these are sick people, and I will put the people back in charge of this country again, the people will be back in charge of our country. The Biden administration is the most corrupt administration in American history. Hunter Biden is a criminal, and nothing happened to him, nothing happened. Joe Biden is a criminal and nothing ever seems to happen to him, because you know, say what you want, but the Democrats stick together. They don't have Mitt Romney, they don't have guys like that, they stick together. How's Mitt Romney doing? Not too good. I could name plenty of others too, but they do stick together whether you like them or not, and many of us don't, but maybe someday we get together..

A question was asked of me just before Covid came in. They said, "The country is coming together, do you think this is real?" And I said to myself, "It is real, it's amazing." I was getting calls from radical left people, the nicest calls, it's amazing, because we had the best employment numbers in history, we had the best economy in history. We were lapping China, China was supposed to have taken over as the world's largest economy, and we were actually increasing at a level that nobody thought possible, we were doing great. And then you had Covid come in and a lot of things had to happen, and we did a great job. We never got the credit for that job, but we did a great job with Covid and then gave back something very strong, but we were really bringing this country together. Had Covid not come in, I think you would've had a much different… Because a lot of people want to know, can we all get along together? And if I didn't have that experience, I would say no, because the thought process is so different, but we were starting to really get along, and then we had the disaster, as I call it, the China virus, because I want to be open and I want to be accurate.

But Biden openly held back a billion dollar taxpayer, old taxpayer money, for the government of Ukraine. Remember he said, "Until they fire the prosecutor, when they fire that prosecutor." And this prosecutor was after Hunter and the company that was paying him a fortune of money. Remember Joe Biden stood up and said, "And I looked at them and I said, you're not getting that billion dollars until you get rid of that." I can't believe he did that. Can you imagine if I did that. I wouldn't be here right now, I suspect. And nobody picks it up, nobody wants to pick it up, it doesn't get any worse, doesn't get any worse than that. Although maybe it does, it's called The Laptop from Hell. And yet they go after me over and over again about something that's not even a crime. They make up Russia, Russia, Russia, which was a plan made up by crooked Hillary Clinton, Adam Shifty Schiff, and the Democrats, the DNC.

They then made up a fake phone call. They took a phone call that was perfect, and they pretended that I said things that weren't even there. They actually imitated, remember Schiff, he stood up in Congress and he repeated the call like I was a gangster over and over again, quid pro quo. Remember the term, quid pro quo? But there wasn't. I called downstairs at the White House, I said, "Listen, do we have that call taped? Because there's no way I said those things." And they called back and tell me, "Yes, sir, we do." Essentially, we had transcripts of the call. Thank goodness we had transcripts because these guys they're sick, they're sick people, and they were looking to do a number. I'll tell you how bad they are, and I tell this story seldom, but it's a strong story. Monica, thank you very much for the great job you did, by the way, what a defender she is.

But they're so bad, so they come up with this Russia, Russia, Russia hoax, and they know it's a hoax. They know it's hoax, I know it's a hoax too, but they know it's a hoax. And Adam Shifty Schiff comes out from a very secretive room, intelligence committee or whatever, and he meets the press right in front. The press is going crazy, they're going crazy because they'll do anything to hurt Trump, anything, they're evil people in many cases. In some cases they're great people, but a lot of evil people. And he stands up before a microphone. Now, this is a man who knows it's a fake story, Russia. Russia, Russia. They checked six years of phone calls, millions of calls were made from my office, not one call to Russia, not one call. They weren't surprised, but some people were surprised.

But he stood up before the microphones and he said, "Donald Trump Jr. will go to prison for what he has done with Russia." My son's going to go to prison. He said my son's going to go to prison for what he's done with Russia. And my son didn't have anything to do with it, and he knew it was a fake story, and when it was finally revealed, now the Times, the Washington Post, they all admit it was fake story. We're trying to get the Pulitzer Prize taken away, they got Pulitzer Prize. We're suing. You know what the prize says? "For its concise and accurate reporting on the Russia, Russia, Russia event." And they have it actually totally wrong. Actually, Mark Levin should get a prize, and Greg Jared, Greg Jared should get a prize. And even it's not his deal, Sean Hannity should get a prize. And frankly, Jesse should get a prize, Jesse should. And a lot of people, and I'll tell you, you know who should get a prize? Tucker should get a prize, they're very strong,

And we have numerous writers that should get it, but the ones that got it were the New York Times, certain reporters from the New York Times, and certain reporters from the Washington Post, they got the Pulitzer Price, and they were exactly wrong. And now they've even admitted that it was a hoax, it was a total hoax, and they got the prize. But how bad is a person that stands before a big gaggle of press and they just can't get enough, and says that my son is going to prison for something that he knows was a hoax? Only a really bad person would do that. But they then came in with Ukraine, Ukraine, Ukraine, the Mueller hoax. How did Mueller present himself at the hearings? It wasn't too pretty. But you know what? I'll say this, at least they came to the right conclusion, because I was concerned they'd come to the conclusion, I think we have prosecutors now, they don't give a if you're guilty. They're looking at me in Atlanta on a perfect phone call, I said, "Even more perfect than my perfect call to Ukraine." That was a perfect call, this is even more perfect.

By the way, where's Hunter? Where is Hunter? Remember, where's Hunter? Will there ever be a time when Joe Biden says, "This thing with Hunter just isn't working out well, I'm starting to get a little angry at Hunter."? Or when Hunter comes to him and says, "Dad, dad, we have a problem." "What is it, son? Another one, oh, son, you're a disaster son. Son, you're a disaster." "Dad, we have a problem, I left my laptop at the repair shop." And Joe looks at him and says, "What's on it, son, what's on it?" And Hunter looks back and he says, "Every single crime that you've ever committed dad." And hence is called The Laptop from Hell. And Miranda Devine did a great book on that, and she actually thanked me. She said, "I got the name from Trump." She told me, she said, "I want to thank you for the name." I said, "No charge." But she did a great job, great book, The Laptop from Hell. If I so much is fly over a blue state, they do so many bad things, it's just crazy.

The racist Manhattan District Attorney, Alvin Bragg, who is presiding over one of the most dangerous and violent cities in the United States, you have to see this, the United States where killings are taking place at a number like nobody's ever seen, right in Manhattan. And he's doing nothing about it, nothing whatsoever. No cash bail for people that just kill people, knife them in the back, hit them over the head with a baseball bat, push them into subways when this train is right there. But this racist DA is being pushed by radical left Democrats, the fake news media, and the Department of Injustice to bring charges against me for now ancient, no affair story of Stormy Horseface Daniels. No attraction, No affair, I call it no affair, where there's no crime anyway. And charges have never been brought in such a case before, and this case has been looked by every prosecutor, they're all looking, they've looked at it for years now. She was represented by Michael Avenatti, how's he doing? He's now in jail and the whole thing is a complete con job, and she was ordered to pay me in federal court order this, hundreds of thousands of dollars. But they're still looking at it, they're still looking, and all they do is they cause anger and problems for our country, because our people aren't going to take this stuff.

It never ends, in the meantime, Hunter and Joe Biden skate, they skate. They go away free, what's going on with that? That laptop is a disaster. Has anyone read this thing? How can it be possible? They're looking in Delaware. How's he doing? He's not the same guy that I have for the document oaks. I have a man, he's a total animal. Known to be, and he's looking, looking, looking, in the meantime, Biden's guy that's looking, looking, looking. And don't forget, I had a very strong privilege as president. I was able to do things that he wasn't able to do as vice president and wasn't able to do as a senator. Even the Senate, they can't believe it. The Senate cannot believe it, but when you look at what happened, they're not even looking at him, they haven't even started. Congress and various radical left Democrat prosecutors, in an effort to stop me, go to the Supreme Court twice. They went twice, and the Supreme Court, in a moment of total weakness, gives them everything they want in order to try and prosecute Trump everything.

Thank you very much, Supreme Court, I appreciate it. But they found nothing. They looked at 11 million pages of documents, it's a big company, it's a great company. Remember my taxes? "We're after his taxes." Five years I heard about my taxes. They came out about two months ago, everyone said, "Wow, it's a great company he built, that's great." That's the end of it. No, right? And I had the biggest and most prestigious one of them, at least law firms, accounting firms, doing all this stuff. I don't do it, they do it, you rely on these people, they do it. But I didn't hear one word, and how stupid am I telling you this story right now? Because now they'll go, "We got to find something in there." He made a typographical error. There's a revolution going on within the FBI because they don't want to be doing what they're being told to do because they know right from wrong, I'm talking about the people that work in the FBI, and they like me and they like you a lot, so many of them. A recent article in the Washington Post, of all papers, stated very succinctly that many did not want to raid Mar-a-Lago, they didn't want the agents. They said, "That's terrible." But they were forced to do so by their Marxist radical left leadership, and it drove my popularity numbers through the roof. Who would think this?

I got impeached and I went up 11 points. It's not supposed to work like that. Mark, when Nixon got impeached, it went down right away, it was as spiral down, he couldn't stop it. I got impeached, we went up, but the FBI people, they didn't want to do this. To those in the FBI that are with us, I want to thank you very much, I really do, I want to thank you. Stay strong, stay strong, help is coming. Then there's the racist DA from Atlanta, whose city is among the most violent and dangerous places per capita in the country. More murders than even Chicago per capita. It's totally out of control and yet she has her kangaroo court focused on a perfect phone call that I made, while her jury foreman, a rather bizarre young woman, is going around doing media interviews and saying exactly what's going on in this one of many grand juries. Our opponents do anything they can to hurt me politically because they're afraid of me and they're afraid of you, that's what it is, but it's not supposed to work that way.

The disinformation, people say they are great at disinformation. The one we want to run against is Trump. Do you ever hear that? "Oh, we want to run against Trump." Even though I'm leading every one of these guys, and even though I won the second election, I won it by a lot. When they say Biden won, the smart people know they didn't. But right now, we're way up. But they say, "Oh, we want to run against Trump." They always say that, they say that about everybody. When they have somebody that they don't want to run against, a governor, or senator, they say, "We want to run against." Because it's like demeaning, in other words, like you're supposed to be schlemiel. I got 75 million votes, I got more votes than any city president in history the second time. And we really did, we did a much better job than we did in 2016. 2020, we did better than 2016, but they say, "We want to run against Trump." In the meantime, they're spending hundreds of millions of dollars trying to find just a single word, a sentence, anything to prosecute Trump because they don't want to run against me. That's what they say, "We want to run against Trump, we'll do anything to run against Trump."

They have the greatest line of bullshit of any group of people I've ever seen. Want to run against Trump. But at the same time, they send people from the Justice Department to the local DA's office of Manhattan. Do you know the Justice Department sent their top people to the Manhattan DA's office to help in the prosecution of Trump? This way, we have it a little bit away from Washington. It's local. Oh, we had nothing to do, but their top guy was put in that office to help prosecute Trump. How would you like to have my life? Would anybody like my life? But I still like it. But they want to try and find anything they can when they've already been exonerated, I've been exonerated many times. You take a look at what this meant, time after time, but all of this is happening for one single reason. They know that when we return to power, we will bring their lies, and their corruption, and their disinformation tumbling down. Our getting back in the White House is their worst nightmare, but it is our country's only hope, it's our only hope. If we don't get back now, this country can't take it, even the two years, and now, fortunately it's less than that, it's hard to believe it's less. We used to say four years, a lot of people said, "Well, sir, the election was so bad, you'll be in in one year." A lot of people in this room, "You'll be back in six weeks, sir." But it's a bad system in many ways, very bad, very dangerous system, but nobody else can do it but us. In recent weeks, I've been laying out a bold detailed agenda for how we're going to complete this mission in our next term. I do weekly statements and people are liking them. Today, I want to go through some of our big plans that I will do as the 47th President of the United States. Thank you.

At the top of my list, we'll be stopping the slide into costly and never-ending wars, we got to stop it. Can't keep spending hundreds of billions of dollars protecting people that don't even like us. Now in business, if you did that, what you do is you put up the money and then you say, "But listen, we own half your country in case you win." You take a piece of the upside, right? I don't get nothing. In fact, the opposite, we put up the money, and then after it's finished, assuming it's successful, let's say it's successful, they don't want to even talk to us. "Nope, you have nothing to do with us, get out of here." You have nothing. No, no, in business, you put up money, seed money, call it whatever you want, you end up owning the country by the time it's over, and the only reason they're doing well is we're giving them the greatest equipment, that I bought, the greatest equipment ever made. And the only reason they're doing well with NATO is I raised $440 billion from countries that weren't paying anything.

And the Secretary General, Stoltenberg, a good man, he said, "It's one of the greatest jobs I've ever seen." I hope he still says that, but one of the greatest jobs. He said, "Obama would come and make a speech, Bush would come make a speech, and then they'd leave." I came, I looked, I said, "Man, these people aren't paying, we're paying for the whole thing practically." Of the 28 countries at the time, only eight were paid up, 20 weren't, including Germany, they paid a fraction of what they were supposed to be paying. And I said to him, "Either you pay or we're not going to protect you." And a man stood up, a president of a country stood up, and he said, "Sir, could I ask you a question?" This was a round table with nobody in the room, but the presidents, prime ministers, and dictators, okay? Some of them are all the same, but they stood up and he stood up and said, "Sir, can I ask you a question? If we don't pay up and if we get attacked by Russia, will you protect us, sir?" I said, "Now you're not paid up, right?" "That's right." "You're delinquent, right?" "Yes." I will not protect you from Russia." "Sir, we'll send you a check tomorrow, sir. We'll send you a check tomorrow. It'll be sent by overnight mail, sir, I promise you'll have it tomorrow."

Now, if I said like the stupid politicians say, "Absolutely. Article 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, where you're supposed to do it? But those articles all suppose that you're supposed to be paid up. But let's say I said the opposite, "Yes, we will always protect you." And I took a lot of heat because they said, "I'm not a good member." Actually, NATO wouldn't even exist if I didn't get them to pay up, but they paid up $449 billion or something, and that's the money they use. They're rich as hell right now, they spent on an office building that cost $3 billion. It's like a skyscraper in Manhattan later in its side, it's one of the longest buildings I've ever seen, and I said, "You should have, instead of spending $3 billion, you should have spent $500 million building the greatest bunker you've ever seen." Because Russia wouldn't even need an airplane attack. One tank, one shot through that beautiful glass building and it's gone. Same architect I used in Chicago, great architects, but they didn't have war in mind, but when things happen, that building would be gone at about 15 minutes.

They should have spent a $500 million bunker, nice thick ceiling, six inches, six feet of concrete. And by the way, we have a great gentleman, speaking of China, will you please stand up? Gordon, stand up, please. Gordon. I'm talking a lot about China, and I'm looking over, I'm studying him, and I'm studying his face as I'm speaking, because people do like me to go off script a little bit, right? It's a little bit more risky, but it's more exciting. And I'm looking at Gordon, and I'm saying, "I hope he agrees with what I'm saying." But basically I'm saying exactly what you say. They're not out for our good, are they? They're not out for our good, and nobody ever taxed them like I did, and nobody ever took any money in like I did. $440 billion, we took in so much money from China, it's so incredible. So I just, it's an honor to have you here, really it is. I agree with almost everything you said, almost everything. Great. Thank you very much, thank you, madam, thank you very much, great job, both of you.

I was the only president in decades that didn't have a war, but I completed wars that were already started, including defeating 100% of the ISIS Caliphate. I was also the only president where Russia didn't take over a country during my term. Russia took over, not because I got along with Vladimir Putin very well. I said, "Vladimir, don't do it. You know, you and I have friends, don't take over any countries because Moscow will be hit very hard." Well, I told him things. He probably didn't believe it, but you know what, he believed it 10%, and President Xi believed it when I talked about Beijing. He probably said, "I don't believe him, but there's a 10% chance we're not going to do anything." It's true, it's true, you have no idea these conversations. I wish they could have been recorded, actually, people would think a lot of me. But with Bush, they invaded Georgia, right? With Obama, they took Crimea, with Biden, they're trying to take everything. And he won't even know they took it. Thank you. And with me, they took nothing, nothing. And I didn't really even have to threaten them very much, they understood me very well, I wanted them to understand me very well. They knew that they couldn't do it. Putin knew that, President Xi knew it too. Likewise, China now has its eyes strongly focused on Taiwan, and we could soon have a nuclear armed Iran. That's the saddest thing of all though, when we talk about Iran, that's the saddest thing when you see. I had them in a box. I said to China, "You can't buy any oil from Iran." They said, "No, no, we have to buy. We buy millions of barrels here." And I said, "You can't buy, you have to buy from somebody else." "No, no, we'll buy." I said, good, we're not going to do any more trading with China, we're going cold Turkey." "We will promise you not to buy from Iran."

That was the end of that, that was a conversation I had. I said, "If you buy from Iran, any oil, we're not going to do any business, or if for some reason we do, we're going to put a hundred percent tariff on every single thing that you sell into the United States." And they didn't buy any oil, and nobody was buying oil, and they were in a position, had the election not turned out the way it did, they were in a position where they were going to give us everything. We were going to make a great deal. But now they're rich Again, China's buying unlimited amounts of oil from Iran, unlimited amounts in other places, and we've done something else that's terrible. From the time I'm a young man, I learned, never allow Russia and China to get together to, wed never ever allow it. And we've not only allowed it, we've made them bosom buddies, we've forced them together. And you can add
Had another group in there, a nuclear armed Iran. So the three of them are now together. That should have never been allowed to happen, would've never happened with me. And it was all over oil, our stupid oil policy. We're not going to drill. We have more oil in the United States than any country in the world, including Saudi Arabia, people don't realize it. In Alaska, I approved a site, we all know what the site is, probably the biggest in the world. And the Democrats said, "No, it's over." They turned it down. Ronald Reagan tried to do it. Every president, Republican and some Democrats tried to do it, they couldn't get it done, I got it done. And the first day in office, the Secretary of the Interior for Biden signed off on it where they're going to not allow it to happen bigger probably than Saudi Arabia. If we had that without even my talking to Putin, oil would've been at $40, $35, maybe $30 a barrel.

So he wouldn't have even had the money to prosecute a war against Ukraine. He wouldn't have done it anyway, but… And that's not even what I'm saying from previous. But he wouldn't have had the money, even if he wanted to. Ukraine would've been thriving. There would've been no dead people, and there would've been no obliterated cities that can never be rebuilt, can never rebuild those cities. Russia never would've pulled the trigger. This is the most dangerous time in the history of our country, and Joe Biden is leading us into oblivion. He's leading us into oblivion. We all smile when he falls downstairs and things, it's cute. When he falls off his bicycle, isn't this cute? You know what amazed me that the reporters didn't catch him when the bike was going down. They're standing right next to him. They let him fall. It's amazing. I'm surprised.

But when he makes statements that are so bad when he gets out of Afghanistan and takes the soldiers, takes the soldiers out first. And in Afghanistan for 18 months, I had a talk with Abdul who was the leader of Afghanistan. I said, "Abdul…" Oh, I got a lot of criticism. Remember when I was talking to him, everyone said, "Oh, he is talking to the leader of the Taliban." That's right. Because our soldiers were being killed, a lot of them by snipers, and I didn't want that. I don't want to deal with the problems, and I don't want to talk to the mothers and fathers who I would speak to a lot. I don't want to talk to them and tell them their son was shot through the head from 2000 yards away by a sharp shooter. They have very good sharp shooters. So I spoke to this man, his name was Abdul, and I said, "Abdul, don't kill any more of our soldiers because if you kill our soldiers, we are going to hit you harder than any country has ever been hit in the history of the world."

And he called me Your Excellency. See, he and I got along. He's still there. He's still the leader of the Taliban, but now he's got $85 billion worth of our equipment that I bought, $85 billion. I said to General Millie, I want every piece of equipment, "Sir, I think it would be cheaper to leave it behind, sir." That's when I lost faith, that, and when he didn't like me holding up a Bible in front of a church, I said, "This guy's not with us. This is not a smart guy." But he didn't like it. I said, "I want every single…" Because I was getting out of… But I would've kept Bagram, because Bagram is one hour away from where China, forget about Afghanistan, where China makes its nuclear weapons, one hour away. The biggest, most powerful runways in the world, we built it many years ago for tens of billions of dollars, and we gave it away one night.

We just left the lights on. We did leave the dogs behind. Everyone says, "Oh, did they take the dogs? Because they're dog lovers." No, we left the dogs behind. And the Taliban doesn't like dogs, by the way, not at all. But we left in disgrace. It was the most embarrassing moment in the history of our country, in my opinion. And it probably is what caused Putin to say, "Wow, Trump is gone. This is a great time to take over Ukraine." Right? It's probably a reason that that happened. But I stand here today and I'm the only candidate who can make this promise. I will prevent and very easily World War III, very easily. And you're going to have World War III, by the way. You're going to have World War III if something doesn't happen fast, you're going to have World War three. And by the way, just to conclude that little story, when Abdul heard me say that, he said, "Your Excellency, thank you so much for telling me that."

He said, "But why, but why?" I thought it was a very interesting plan, words I've never heard. I use it now sometimes myself. I liked it. He said, "But why, but why, Mr. President, do you send me pictures of my home?" He said that. I said, "You'll have to ask your wives that question." And we didn't have, Mark will tell you this, we didn't have one soldier killed in 18 months, not one soldier was killed, not one soldier, right? In fact, it was so good that the media didn't mind that I called. I took a lot of heat, tremendous heat. "Why do you call him?" I said, "Well, they asked Jesse James, the great bank robber from many years ago, "Why is it that you robbed banks? Why do you always go after banks?" And he looked at him, he says, "Because that's where the money is." Well, I spoke to Abdul because that's where the problem was." But we won 18 months until that horrible day when we lost 13 soldiers.

And the thing that nobody ever talks about, we lost 13. We lost 85 billion worth of the greatest military equipment in the world, goggles, night goggles that are so good, so sophisticated, better than anything, we have brand new, never even taken out of the box. And the Afghans, and they're actually very good. The Taliban are good fighters. Afghan, because it's really very much the same thing, frankly. They didn't fight good for us, but they fought good for themselves and they took a lot of money from us. I asked General Mattis, I said, "We got to get out of there. They've been there for 20 years. We got to get out of there." "Sir, they're fighting for their country, sir." I said, "Hmm, that's right. I guess they are." Then about two days later, I was thinking about it. I said, "I don't know why," because we had more blue on green, green on blue where they'd get their gun and then they'd shoot our master sergeants and our sergeants that are training them.

I said, "Why are they fighting for us if we've never had this problem to the extent that we had it?" But he said that. He said, "They're fighting." And I said, "Are we paying them a lot of money to fight?" And I had it checked. Yeah, we were paying billions and billions and billions of dollars to these Afghan soldiers, tens of billions of dollars. I said, "They're not fighting, General…" I called him back, "They're not fighting because they love us or they love their country. They're fighting because they're the highest paid soldiers in the world. We're basically bribing them to fight." And they didn't fight, but the Taliban did fight. Same people, but the Taliban did fight. But they didn't kill anybody for 18 months. I'm very proud. In fact, Biden got up and he actually said that, "They didn't kill anybody. I will say that they didn't kill anybody for 18 months." And you know what happened? Because people start screaming, "Don't say that," because that's a good thing for us.

But then when we left, we lost soldiers, 13 killed. But what they don't talk about, they talk about the equipment. They talk about the fact that there are still to this day, a lot of Americans in there that we've lost contact with, it's a rough place. But they don't talk about the fact that many of these soldiers were absolutely destroyed. Destroyed. They lost their arms, they lost their legs. They had their face blown off, and they were absolutely destroyed. And they don't talk about that. They don't talk about it. That it's very sad because these people, many of them, we lost 13, they died, but nobody ever talks about the gravity of the injuries to these soldiers. And it's a very sad thing. I got it down to 2,500 people. I was the one that got it down. But we were going to get out with dignity, with strength. We were going to be respected and admired. And I could just see Abdul, they took out the soldiers first.

You don't take the soldiers first. You take the soldiers out last. You get the Americans out first. Because they feared our soldiers, they feared our soldiers. They feared the F-16s, and now they own them. Think of it, you get the soldiers and they go out last. You take our American citizens out, you then take our equipment out. And Millie said to me, "Sir, it's cheaper to leave the equipment than it is to take it out." I said, "Let me ask you, General. So we have a plane that cost a hundred million dollars, brand new. You want to let…" "Yes, sir. It's cheaper, sir."

I thought he was another April fools deal, right? I said, "No, General, you fill it up with a tank of jet fuel. You fly it back home, or at a minimum you fly it into Pakistan or some semi friendly country and you take it from there." "No, sir." I actually told them I want the tents. You know the tents, they have big canvas, incredible tents with the… "I want every piece of steel. I want every screw. I want every nut. I want every bolt. I want every tractor. I want every Jeep."

You know what they did? They left 700,000 rifles and guns, 700,000. They left 70,000 vehicles, 70,000, many of them brand new, many of them armor-plated where they have six inches of steel on the bottom. Of course, your millions of dollars to build. And they left that all behind. There's not a car company, used car lot, new car lot anywhere in the world that would have 70,000 vehicles. I said to a friend of mine who's one of the Arrigo in Florida, great guy. I said, "How many cars?" He said, "I think he's like the biggest in Florida." They sold, they did very well, thank you. But the biggest. I said, "How many cars would you have?" "I don't know. A couple of hundred extra. Couple of hundred." And he's like, "A big one. Real big one. Run runs a great operation." 70,000 vehicles. So now I read the other day that the Taliban, that Afghanistan is the second-largest seller of arms anywhere in the world because they're selling everything that we gave them.

And by the way, as I'm speaking, I see cash? Is that cash? Oh, my eyes are better than I think. And is that Rick Grinnell? Huh? Wow. I better check with Gordon and I better check this audience a little more closely. I'm going to miss a lot of people in here. Great, two real patriots. They really are two great people, thank you very much. But they're the second largest to us. They're the second largest arms dealer in the world. They're selling off all the beautiful brand new equipment we gave them. The Apache helicopter, which is the best in the world. They gave one to Russia, gave it. They gave one to China, and they're very good. They take it apart and they reduplicate it. They take it apart, they reduplicate it because they've never been able to build one like we have. Now they're able to do it because they're very smart, actually. Before I even arrive at the Oval Office, I will have the disastrous war between Russia and Ukraine settled. It will be settled quickly quickly.

I will get the problem solved, and I will get it solved in rapid order, and it will take me no longer than one day. I know exactly what to say to each of them. I got along very well with them. I got along very well with Putin, even though I'm the one that ended this pipeline. Remember they said, "Trump is giving a lot to Russia." Really? Putin actually said to me, "If you're my friend, I'd hate like hell to see you as my enemy," because I ended the pipeline, do you remember? Nord Stream II, nobody ever heard of it, right? Nobody ever heard of Nord Stream II until I came along. I started talking about Nord Stream II. I had to go call it the pipeline because nobody knew what I was talking about, but I ended it. It was dead. I told every company that had sucked into it that you're not doing business with the United States of America if you go forward and allow this to be built, it was done.

On day one, Biden came in… And this is the biggest economic development project. This is the most important project that Russia has on day one. This is the biggest money they could ever make. There's nothing they could ever do to compete with us. This is the biggest pipeline in the world. Going to supply Europe, Germany in particular. On day one, Biden came in and what did he do? He approved the Nord Stream pipeline. And then they'd say, "Trump was soft on Russia." I was the one that gave a thousand Javelins, that's the anti-tech busters. And they are vicious because I looked at those tanks and they ended up, they got hit one shot, and that was the end of that, you wouldn't want to be in those tanks. But I was the one that supplied the Javelins. They supplied the bedsheets, do you remember? They supplied the bedsheets and maybe even some pillows from Mike who's sitting right over here. Where the hell is Mike? Did you send some pillows over there? Maybe? But they supplied the bedsheets, they call it. We supplied the sheets. They didn't want to get involved.

I gave the Javelins, and then they say, "Trump was weak on Russia." Disinformation. Again, it's disinformation, right? That's all they're good at, cheating on elections and disinformation. Instead of spending hundreds of billions of dollars to defend the borders of distant foreign countries. Under my leadership, we will defend our borders first. Three years ago, we had the safest border in the history of our country, and I will quickly do that again. As you know, I built hundreds of miles of wall and completed that task as promised, and then I began to add even more in areas that seemed to be allowing a lot of people to come in. So we're going to do another 200 miles of wall, and it could have been done and completed in three weeks but the Biden administration said they weren't going to do it. And in fact, the wall was sitting there waiting to be installed, the easiest part, and Biden, they took it away. So the Texas and Arizona couldn't use it.

Texas and Arizona said, "Could we use that wall? We'll finish it right up." And they said, no. And they actually took it away and they hid it. They put it in a hiding area, which of course was revealed pretty quickly, all you have to do is send a couple of helicopters up. But they wouldn't let them use it. Under my leadership, we will seal it up and expand that wall till we have total control. Well, we did a great job in the wall. Remember with Paul Ryan and Mitch McConnell? "Yeah, we'll give it to you next year." I said, "Nope, nope. Give it to me this year." "Well, sir, if you approve this budget, we'll give it to you next year." I said, "All right, that's okay." So I waited, then they didn't give it, and yet Mitch McConnell approves five and a half trillion dollars for Green New Deal garbage. It's a disgrace. But I took it from the military because I considered it an invasion.

So Marjorie, I said, "You know what I'm going to do? I'm going to take it right out of the military because they're invading our country." And I got it built, and we did a great job. We did it quickly. And we used the Army Engineers, they were fantastic. Before Biden came into office, we had illegal immigration at a record low, refugees were at the lowest level in history. Human trafficking, women and children was at the lowest in 30 years. And drug dealers were finding the US border a very inhospitable place to be. It was very inhospitable. In my last year, less drugs came through the southern border than had been seen in many, many decades. We weren't playing games. Now we have complete chaos. Fentanyl is pouring in. Families are being wiped out, destroyed, and there's death everywhere, all caused by incompetence. Millions of illegal aliens are stampeding across our border. Interior enforcement has been shut down. Everyone is overstaying their visas. Nobody even thinks about reporting it anymore. My wonderful travel ban is gone. I had a travel ban, it was so wonderful.

Refugee numbers are through the roof. And spies and terrorists are infiltrating our country totally unchecked like never before. When I'm back in the White House, the very first reconciliation bill I will sign will be for a massive increase in Border Patrol and a colossal increase in the number of ice deportation officers. And I want to thank the Border Patrol. These are incredible people. And I want to thank ICE. And in particular, I want to thank Brandon Judd, Border Patrol and Tom Holman, Central Casting. He's Central Casting. Under my leadership, we will use all necessary state, local, federal, and military resources to carry out the largest domestic deportation operation in American history. Other countries are emptying out their prisons, insane asylums and mental institutions and sending all of their problems right into their dumping ground, the USA. Think of it, they're emptying out their prisons, and you've heard me say that, but they're also emptying out their mental institutions and to use a strong couple of words, insane asylum.

Insane asylum, that's where… Anybody see Silence of the Lamb? That's where they come from. Insane asylum. That's a stronger word than a mental institution. And they're putting them into our country, thank you very much. I will ask every state and federal agency to identify every known or suspected gang member in America and every one of them that is here illegally. And the towns know who they are, the towns and cities or the police. We love our police. The police know who they are. And we will pick them up and we will throw them out of our country and there will be no questions asked. We had a problem when I first assumed the office in 2016, it was a big problem. We'd have these people, we'd round them up, MS-13 gangs, the worst people. These are absolute brutal killers. They used to knife 16 year old girls because it was more painful. It would take longer to kill her. These are real animals. And Nancy Pelosi said, "How dare you call them animals? These are human beings."

I said, "No, they're not." But these are real animals. And we couldn't get them back into their countries because the country was like, especially three… You take a look at Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras in particular, and Mexico to an extent, you couldn't get them back in because they didn't want them. They sent them out in the first place here. They forced them into our country, just so you know. These are very smart people that run these places. They're very streetwise. So I said, "What's the problem?" "Sir, we have thousands of people, but they won't allow us to land the planes. They won't allow the buses to cross the border. They won't allow them back in their country." I said, "How much money do we pay to these various countries?" "Sir, we pay $750 million a year." I said, "All right, inform the country that we're no longer paying any money. And if they ask why, you can tell them."

"Yes sir, we'll do that." So the following morning, almost simultaneously early, about eight o'clock, I got calls from all three at one time. In fact, I had to tell two of them, "I'll call you back," because they all came in right on time, Matt, right on time, like you call on time. And what happens is they came in and they called. They said, "Sir, there must be a misunderstanding. We would love to have MS-13 back in our country." And we started dropping them off by the tens of thousands, and I still hadn't paid them back their money. I kept it. I figured, let's hold it as long as possible because they've been ripping us off long enough. To stop the flow of deadly drugs, it will be my policy to take down the cartels just as I took down the ISIS caliphate that everybody said was impossible to do. A lot of parents in this audience that lost a child, that lost a loved one to Fentanyl and all of the drugs that are pouring in so many different kinds, fentanyl is a big problem.

In fact, with the ISIS caliphate, a certain general said, " It could only be done in three years and probably it can't be done at all, sir." And I did it in three weeks. I went over to Iraq, met a great general. "Sir, I can do it in three weeks," you've heard that story. "I could do it in three weeks, sir." How are you going to do that? They explained it. I did it in three weeks. I was told it couldn't be done at all, but it would take at least three years. Did it in three weeks, knocked out 100% of the ISIS caliphate. We have a great military. The reason I say that, we have a great military. And I will direct the Department of Justice to go after Marxist prosecutor's offices to make them pay for their illegal race-based enforcement of the law. By the way, we have one of those great generals with us, General Kellogg. Where's General Kellogg? Is he around here? Where is General Kellogg? He's the greatest. He's here. Thank you, General. Thank you. Thank you, General. And in cities where there's been a complete breakdown of public safety, I will send in federal assets, including the National Guard, until law and order is restored. We're not supposed to do that. And one thing I think about a lot is when we had some difficulty in certain cities like Minneapolis. And if you take a look at Portland, how's Portland doing? They don't even have storefronts anymore. Everything's two by four is because they get burned down every week. They don't put news storefronts up. It's chaos. But what we had in Seattle, remember they took over a large portion. I was ready to send in the National Guard. They heard that. More than the National Guard, I was ready to go to town. And they heard that. You know what they did? They said, "We're going to break it up now." They left. But we saved Minneapolis.

The thing is, we're not supposed to do that because it's up to the governor, the Democrat governor. They never want any help. They don't mind. It's almost like they don't mind to have their cities and states destroyed. There's something wrong with these people. All of us have seen too many videos of 13 year old carjackers and 14 year old hoodlums viciously beating their victims, saw it just yesterday, a horrible situation. They kill people without retribution because they may be day short of the age required to put them away, put them in jail, and throw away the keys for a long time. My administration will crack down on these out of control monsters. Young though, they may be an imposed tough consequences on juvenile criminals. Criminals use young people. They actually hire young people, pay them some money, not a lot, because if they get caught, nothing's going to happen to them.

That will end. I will end the scourge of homelessness taking over our cities and suburbs. I just drove through Washington DC coming here for the first time in quite a while, and the roads and highways were littered with trash like I've never seen before. It looked like somebody just took their garbage and just threw it all over the highways, the beltway. It's so disgraceful, so disgusting. I always made it a point as president, when I saw the highways were dirty or that the homeless encampments were starting to form, to take care of the problem immediately. I used to have people out here all the time, sweeping highways, cleaning highways, hosing them down.
It bothered me so much. I'm in the Beast. I'm being driven back to the White House from some site, and I'd see this filthy, dirty highway with paper that hasn't been … You could see it's been laying there for months, and I'd have them cleaned up. I wouldn't even call the mayor because it was never going to get done with the mayor. Frankly, the federal government should take over control and management of Washington, DC, good project because it's horrible.

I think of it differently. Foreign leaders come in to see us. We want them to do what we want them to do, and they drive through these terrible, disgusting streets, where their streets are much better, much better maintained, much nicer. They see camps and homeless all over our once beautiful parks, all over, hundreds and hundreds of tents. I used to have them taken down … I'd see one or two or three. I said, "Do it fast, immediately." Then I'd check, and it was done.

They'd never have time to do it. Once they have 500, 600, 700 of these things up, it's a much more difficult thing, but you can do that, too. Under our leadership, we will take the homeless, drug addicted, and severely deranged, get them off our streets and create tent cities where we will get them the help they so desperately need. On day one, I will revoke Joe Biden's crazy executive order installing Marxist diversity, equity, and inclusion czars in every federal agency, and I will immediately terminate all staffers hired to implement this horrible agenda.

I will urge Congress to create a restitution fund for Americans who have been unjustly discriminated against by these Biden policies. They're so unfair. They're so un-American. They're so un-American. We will ban all racial discrimination by the government. I will fight for parents' rights. Can you believe that here we are and I'm saying I'm going to fight for parents' rights? Who would think that you have to ever say, "Parents' rights?" Don't you think parents have pretty good rights, right? Who would think that you have to actually say it? But you do because they took the rights away, including universal school choice and the direct election of school principals by the parents.

We want the school principal to be appointed and elected by parents. You'll get some good principals then. Who loves the children more than the parents? If any principal is not getting the job done, the parents should be able to fire that principal immediately and select someone new. Continuing the work of our 1776 Commission, we will teach our values and promote our history and our traditions to our children. We will, in other words, be proud of our country again.
I will revoke every Biden policy promoting the chemical castration and sexual mutilation of our youth and ask Congress to send me a bill prohibiting child sexual mutilation in all 50 states. That should be easy. We will keep men out of women's sports. How ridiculous. That will take place on day one. I will destroy the illegal censorship regime and bring back free speech in America because we do not have free speech.

I will stop Joe Biden's demolition of our economy with his crushing inflation and mass layoffs. We will take care of inflation very, very quickly. 4.9 million people have dropped out of the labor force since I was president. As the Trump administration's great Larry Kudlow … Does everybody know Larry? As Larry Kudlow said, "Biden is setting a record on economic regulations that are absolutely killing American companies. His spending and his borrowing are at record levels. It's causing historic inflation, sir, which is only going to get worse and worse, sir."

He just called me before I got here. I said, "I don't want to say this, Larry. It's only going to get worse and worse. It's driving up interest rates, and new cars and homes are going to be impossible to buy." Amidst this economic disaster, Biden talks about saving you a few dollars on some junk fees, don't mean anything. By defeating Joe Biden, I will save your economy. I will save your retirement accounts, and I will save your jobs. We had the greatest job history of any president ever.

I will create a true national trade policy like the kind that made America the world's economic powerhouse. What we were doing prior to the dust coming in from China was … Nobody's ever seen it. There's never been anything like it. That period of two and a half years was … There's never been anything like it. I'll tell foreign nations where we spend billions of dollars on military protection that if American products do not receive preferential treatment in their markets, our military is packed up and leaving, which some countries I did that with.

Usually it took a phone call and everything was just fine because economic security is national security. I will revoke China's most favored nation's trade status immediately on day one, and I will implement a four-year plan to phase out all Chinese imports of essential goods and gain total independence from China. We have to do it. We have to do it. I will hold China financially accountable for unleashing the China virus upon the world, and I will again withdraw from the WHO, which stands for We Hide Outbreaks. We Hide Outbreaks. The United States was paying.

I think this is important because, again, it's so much common sense involved. The United States was paying the World Health Organization $450 million a year. Now, in terms of money and the kind of trillions and trillions we're talking about, it's not that much, but it's still $450 million a year. I took them out. That's what it was. The price was 450, and that's for 350 million people. China was paying $39 million a year for 1.4 billion people. Doesn't sound too right, and they had total control, by the way. We had no control. They'd literally own it.

When I withdrew from the WHO, they offered me to stay in, "Please don't leave, please, please, please. But what China pays," they said, "we'll bring it down to 39 million." I was actually close to doing this deal, If you wanted know the truth, but you would have been angry at me. I said, "I don't don't want to have CPAC angry at me." But I might have gone back in, but I could have done it for 39. I could have probably done it for less than that. But now Biden has gone back for the full price of $450 million. Now, all he has to do is read the newspapers. They were begging me to come back in for 39 million, so why would you pay $450 million? Do you understand that? Gordon, do you understand that? How crazy. So China's in for 39. They're saying, "You're right. It's unfair. It's unfair. We will do it for 39. We will take you back." The head man, you know who that is. "We will take you back." Then I started to say, "Actually, it should be much less. It should be like five or six million, right?" But I didn't want to go there.

"We will take you back for 39 million. You're right, President." I said, "Well, we'll think about it. We'll see what happens. But the offer will remain open, right?" "Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir." They went back in for the original amount. It's so sad, and we have no control, by the way. China controls WHO. So that's what it does. WHO is totally controlled by China. We could have saved $400 million a year. It's a lot of money. Now they're asking for even more dictatorial power and more and more and more of our money, but they're getting nothing more from China.

When we're dealing with the Biden administration, it seems that every single day is April Fools' Day, every day. They want an open border so that anybody can come in, and everybody else wants it to be closed. It's April Fools'. We want an open border. That's April Fools'. We want voter ID. They don't want voter ID. Who wouldn't want voter ID? 88% of the Democrats, except for the leadership because they can't cheat with voter ID, but 88% of the Democrats want voter ID, but they don't want voter ID. It's April Fools' Day.

They want to take the soldiers out of Afghanistan before we take our people and equipment out, but we want the soldiers to come out last. So then they blow it into a catastrophe, the most embarrassing event in the history of our country. It's April Fools' Day. They want all electric cars that don't go very far. I have a friend. He bought a car. He said, "The car's wonderful. But I go for an hour and a half and I got to put a charger and I can't find a charger. I'm going crazy." Also, all the batteries and everything, the material comes all out of China.

We have oil and gas, but we don't want the oil and gas cars. But we want everything, including electric cars. But we also want gasoline because the cars go longer, and they're preferred by many people. We don't like quick drives that are stopped for two and a half hours. It's April Fools'. They want all electric stoves all over the country, but we don't have the electric power for that. We want electric stoves, but we also want gas stoves. It's April Fools'. Why do they want that?

They want windmills all over the place that ruin our fields, kill our birds, and are very unreliable and are the most expensive energy ever developed. We want oil, gasoline, natural gas because it's cheaper, better, and much more powerful. It's April Fools' Day. Under my leadership, we will regain energy independence that we had three years ago. We were on our way to massive energy dominance. We would have been paying off our debt because energy is big numbers.

It's not like you're selling a little product. You're selling the biggest product of all is energy. We would have been paying off our debt. We would have been the strongest. We were going to be. We were already bigger under my administration, bigger than Saudi Arabia or Russia. We were going to be much bigger than both of them combined. Within about a year, we would have made the kind of money they're making times five, and we would have been paying off debt and we would have been reducing taxes. It would have been a beautiful thing. But they came in and they said, "We don't want that."

I will fight for a constitutional amendment to impose term limits on members of Congress, and I will move heaven and Earth to fully and finally secure our elections. All Republican governors should immediately go for paper ballots, one-day voting, and voter ID. The problem we have is we have governors, and some of them we like and some of them we don't, but they're all talk. Think of it. They control the state. We have a lot of governors. They should go for that, paper ballots, same-day voting.

France had 37 million people voting. They voted in one day, and at 10:30 in the evening, they called the winner. There were no problems. They had paper ballots, same-day voting, voter ID. They only had a little mail-in, and we would have this, too, for soldiers that are very far away or people that are legitimately sick, legitimately, as opposed to millions and millions of ballots flooding the offices. They used COVID to cheat. But until that day comes, Republicans must compete using every lawful means to win. That means swamping the left with mail-in votes, early votes, and election day votes. Have to do it.

We have to change our thinking because some bad things happened. For some reason, Republicans like to vote on election day, right? The problem is you get there, and they have so many already started. But worse, if you take a look at Kari Lake in Arizona where they waited and waited. "Don't vote now. Wait till Tuesday. Wait till Tuesday. Wait till Tuesday." In the Republican areas, a tremendous percentage of the machines were broken, and you couldn't vote. They had lines that were a mile long all over the place, Republican areas, and they couldn't vote.

They said, "Come back in seven hours." But people can't do that. They have Little League. They have doctors. They might love Kari. They might love the Republican party and everything we stand for, but they can't do that. They were standing in the hot sun for hours and hours. And then they sent in mechanics to fix them, and when the mechanics left, they were far worse. They lose those cases in courts because our judges have no courage to do what's right. They have no courage to do what's right.

I can tell you that was the case in 2022, where we can't get rid of drop boxes. We need them in every church. What we have to do, we have to put our own drop boxes in. Zucker Bucks spent $500 million. If you contribute $5,700, $1 more than that, to a candidate, they put you in jail. This guy gave $500 million for all of this crap that they were doing shenanigans. They were handing out the money like it was candy, and that's fine, but people are going to jail for spending like $93 too much because it's not according to election law.

Until we can eliminate ballot harvesting, we will become masters at ballot harvesting. We have no choice, beating the Democrats at their own game. We'll do it legally. The agenda I've laid out today will end America's destruction, but it is not enough just to stop the forces tearing America down. I want once again to build America up. We have to build our country. We don't build anymore. All we do is investigate everybody.

You ever see television? It used to be we'd build our military. We were proud of it. We'd be doing all things. All you see on the thing, investigation, investigation, investigation. Now, with that being said, you got to look at Hunter. I mean how crooked is that deal? But it's not something I really … I'd like to get back to building our country and making our country great again, but it's time to start talking about greatness for our country.

Our objective will be a quantum leap in the American standard of living, especially for our young people. As I announced yesterday, we will hold a competition to build new freedom cities on the frontier to give countless Americans a new shot at home ownership and the American dream. It's such a wonderful, beautiful thing. I'll challenge the governors of all 50 states, all 50 states, to join me in a great beautification campaign. We will rename our schools and boulevards not after communists, but after great American patriots. We will get rid of bad and ugly buildings in return to the magnificent classical style of western civilization. We will support baby boomers, and we will support baby bonuses for a new baby boom. How does that sound? I want a baby boom. Oh, you men are so lucky out there. You're so lucky. You are so lucky, men. Our country will shine, thrive, and prosper like never before. All of this is within our reach, but only if we have the courage to complete the job, gut the deep state, reclaim our democracy, and banish the tyrants and Marxists into political exile forever.

They are bad for us. They want us to fail. They want our country to go down. They are sick people. Change only happens if we plow fearlessly ahead and declare with one voice that the era of woke and weaponized government is over. That is our task. That is our mission. This is the turning point and the time for that decision because, as you've probably heard me say before, we will not back down. We will not bend. We will not quit. We will not yield. We will press forward with push. We will press forward with vigor. We will push onward, and we will finish what we started.

We started a great, great, positive revolution. Nobody's ever seen anything like it before. It's called Make America Great Again. We want to make America great again. We will cross the finish line. We will dismantle the deep state. We will demolish woke tyranny, and we will restore the American republic to all of its radiant glory, and with God's help and your support, we will make America powerful again. We want to have a powerful country. We need to have a powerful country.

We will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. That's what we want. We want strength. Think of your heart pounding, we will make America proud again. We will make America safe again, not like our streets of the cities which are a disgrace for the entire world to watch, and we will make America great again. Thank you very much, CPAC. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you, and thank you to the Center for National Interest for honoring me with this invitation. It truly is a great honor. I'd like to talk today about how to develop a new foreign policy direction for our country, one that replaces randomness with purpose, ideology with strategy, and chaos with peace.
It's time to shake the rust off America's foreign policy. It's time to invite new voices and new visions into the fold, something we have to do. The direction I will outline today will also return us to a timeless principle. My foreign policy will always put the interests of the American people and American security above all else. It has to be first. Has to be.
That will be the foundation of every single decision that I will make. America...

America first will be the major and overriding theme of my administration. But to chart our path forward, we must first briefly take a look back. We have a lot to be proud of.
In the 1940s we saved the world. The greatest generation beat back the Nazis and Japanese imperialists. Then we saved the world again. This time, from totalitarianism and communism. The Cold War lasted for decades but, guess what, we won and we won big. Democrats and Republicans working together got Mr. Gorbachev to heed the words of President Reagan, our great president, when he said, tear down this wall.

History will not forget what he did. A very special man and president. Unfortunately, after the Cold War our foreign policy veered badly off course. We failed to develop a new vision for a new time. In fact, as time went on, our foreign policy began to make less and less sense. Logic was replaced with foolishness and arrogance, which led to one foreign policy disaster after another.
They just kept coming and coming. We went from mistakes in Iraq to Egypt to Libya, to President Obama's line in the sand in Syria. Each of these actions have helped to throw the region into chaos and gave ISIS the space it needs to grow and prosper. Very bad. It all began with a dangerous idea that we could make western democracies out of countries that had no experience or interests in becoming a western democracy.
We tore up what institutions they had and then were surprised at what we unleashed. Civil war, religious fanaticism, thousands of Americans and just killed be lives, lives, lives wasted. Horribly wasted. Many trillions of dollars were lost as a result. The vacuum was created that ISIS would fill. Iran, too, would rush in and fill that void much to their really unjust enrichment.
They have benefited so much, so sadly, for us. Our foreign policy is a complete and total disaster. No vision. No purpose. No direction. No strategy. Today I want to identify five main weaknesses in our foreign policy.
First, our resources are totally over extended. President Obama has weakened our military by weakening our economy. He's crippled us with wasteful spending, massive debt, low growth, a huge trade deficit and open borders. Our manufacturing trade deficit with the world is now approaching $1 trillion a year.
We're rebuilding other countries while weakening our own. Ending the theft of American jobs will give us resources we need to rebuild our military, which has to happen and regain our financial independence and strength. I am the only person running for the presidency who understands this and this is a serious problem.
I'm the only one - believe me, I know them all, I'm the only one who knows how to fix it.

Secondly, our allies are not paying their fair share, and I've been talking about this recently a lot. Our allies must contribute toward their financial, political, and human costs, have to do it, of our tremendous security burden. But many of them are simply not doing so.
They look at the United States as weak and forgiving and feel no obligation to honor their agreements with us. In NATO, for instance, only 4 of 28 other member countries besides America, are spending the minimum required 2 percent of GDP on defense. We have spent trillions of dollars over time on planes, missiles, ships, equipment, building up our military to provide a strong defense for Europe and Asia.
The countries we are defending must pay for the cost of this defense, and if not, the U.S. must be prepared to let these countries defend themselves. We have no choice.

The whole world will be safer if our allies do their part to support our common defense and security. A Trump administration will lead a free world that is properly armed and funded, and funded beautifully.
Thirdly, our friends are beginning to think they can't depend on us. We've had a president who dislikes our friends and bows to our enemies, something that we've never seen before in the history of our country. He negotiated a disastrous deal with Iran, and then we watched them ignore its terms even before the ink was dry. Iran cannot be allowed to have a nuclear weapon, cannot be allowed. Remember that, cannot be allowed to have a nuclear weapon.

And under a Trump administration, will never, ever be allowed to have that nuclear weapon.

All of this without even mentioning the humiliation of the United States with Iran's treatment of our ten captured sailors - so vividly I remember that day. In negotiation, you must be willing to walk. The Iran deal, like so many of our worst agreements, is the result of not being willing to leave the table.
When the other side knows you're not going to walk, it becomes absolutely impossible to win - you just can't win. At the same time, your friends need to know that you will stick by the agreements that you have with them. You've made that agreement, you have to stand by it and the world will be a better place. President Obama gutted our missile defense program and then abandoned our missile defense plans with Poland and the Czech Republic. He supported the ouster of a friendly regime in Egypt that had a longstanding peace treaty with Israel, and then helped bring the Muslim Brotherhood to power in its place.
Israel, our great friend and the one true democracy in the Middle East has been snubbed and criticized by an administration that lacks moral clarity. Just a few days ago, Vice President Biden again criticized Israel, a force for justice and peace, for acting as an impatient peace area in the region.
President Obama has not been a friend to Israel. He has treated Iran with tender love and care and made it a great power. Iran has, indeed, become a great, great power in just a very short period of time, because of what we've done. All of the expense and all at the expense of Israel, our allies in the region and very importantly, the United States itself.
We've picked fights with our oldest friends, and now they're starting to look elsewhere for help. Remember that. Not good.
Fourth, our rivals no longer respect us. In fact, they're just as confused as our allies, but in an even bigger problem is they don't take us seriously anymore. The truth is they don't respect us. When President Obama landed in Cuba on Air Force One, to leader was there, nobody, to greet him.
Perhaps an incident without precedent in the long and prestigious history of Air Force One. Then amazingly, the same thing happened in Saudi Arabia. It's called no respect. Absolutely no respect.
Do you remember when the president made a long and expensive trip to Copenhagen, Denmark, to get the Olympics for our country, and after this unprecedented effort, it was announced that the United States came in fourth - fourth place? The president of the United States making this trip - unprecedented - comes in fourth place. He should have known the result before making such an embarrassing commitment. We were laughed at all over the world, as we have been many, many times.
The list of humiliations go on and on and on. President Obama watches helplessly as North Korea increases its aggression and expands further and further with its nuclear reach. Our president has allowed China to continue its economic assault on American jobs and wealth, refusing to enforce trade deals and apply leverage on China necessary to rein in North Korea. We have the leverage. We have the power over China, economic power, and people don't understand it. And with that economic power, we can rein in and we can get them to do what they have to do with North Korea, which is totally out of control.
He has even allowed China to steal government secrets with cyber attacks and engaged in industrial espionage against the United States and its companies. We've let our rivals and challengers think they can get away with anything, and they do. They do at will. It always happens. If President Obama's goal had been to weaken America, he could not have done a better job.
Finally, America no longer has a clear understanding of our foreign policy goals. Since the end of the Cold War and the breakup of the Soviet Union, we've lacked a coherent foreign policy. One day, we're bombing Libya and getting rid of a dictator to foster democracy for civilians. The next day, we're watching the same civilians suffer while that country falls and absolutely falls apart. Lives lost, massive moneys lost. The world is a different place.
We're a humanitarian nation, but the legacy of the Obama-Clinton interventions will be weakness, confusion and disarray, a mess. We've made the Middle East more unstable and chaotic than ever before. We left Christians subject to intense persecution and even genocide.

We have done nothing to help the Christians, nothing, and we should always be ashamed for that, for that lack of action. Our actions in Iraq, Libya and Syria have helped unleash ISIS, and we're in a war against radical Islam, but President Obama won't even name the enemy, and unless you name the enemy, you will never ever solve the problem.

Hillary Clinton also refuses to say the words radical Islam, even as she pushes for a massive increase in refugees coming into our country. After Secretary Clinton's failed intervention in Libya, Islamic terrorists in Benghazi took down our consulate and killed our ambassador and three brave Americans. Then, instead of taking charge that night, Hillary Clinton decided to go home and sleep. Incredible.
Clinton blames it all on a video, an excuse that was a total lie, proven to be absolutely a total lie. Our ambassador was murdered and our secretary of state misled the nation. And, by the way, she was not awake to take that call at 3 o'clock in the morning. And now ISIS is making millions and millions of dollars a week selling Libya oil. And you know what? We don't blockade, we don't bomb, we don't do anything about it. It's almost as if our country doesn't even know what's happening, which could be a fact and could be true.
This will all change when I become president.
To our friends and allies, I say America is going to be strong again. America is going to be reliable again. It's going to be a great and reliable ally again. It's going to be a friend again. We're going to finally have a coherent foreign policy based upon American interests and the shared interests of our allies.

We're getting out of the nation-building business and instead focusing on creating stability in the world. Our moments of greatest strength came when politics ended at the water's edge. We need a new rational American foreign policy, informed by the best minds and supported by both parties, and it will be by both parties - Democrats, Republicans, independents, everybody, as well as by our close allies.
This is how we won the Cold War and it's how we will win our new future struggles, which may be many, which may be complex, but we will win if I become president.

First, we need a long-term plan to halt the spread and reach of radical Islam. Containing the spread of radical Islam must be a major foreign policy goal of the United States and indeed the world. Events may require the use of military force, but it's also a philosophical struggle, like our long struggle in the Cold War.
In this, we're going to be working very closely with our allies in the Muslim world, all of which are at risk from radical Islamic violence, attacks and everything else. It is a dangerous world, more dangerous now than it has ever been.
We should work - thank you.

We should work together with any nation in the region that is threatened by the rise of radical Islam. But this has to be a two-way street. They must also be good to us. Remember that. They have to be good to us, no longer one way. It's now two-way. And remember, us and all we're doing, they have to appreciate what we've done to them. We're going to help, but they have to appreciate what we've done for them. The struggle against radical Islam also takes place in our homeland. There are scores of recent migrants inside our borders charged with terrorism. For every case known to the public, there are dozens and dozens more. We must stop importing extremism through senseless immigration policies. We have no idea where these people are coming from. There's no documentation. There's no paperwork. There's nothing. We have to be smart. We have to be vigilant.
A pause for reassessment will help us to prevent the next San Bernardino or frankly, much worse. All you have to do is look at the World Trade Center and September 11th, one of the great catastrophes, in my opinion, the single greatest military catastrophe in the history of our country; worse than Pearl Harbor because you take a look at what's happened, and citizens were attacked, as opposed to the military being attacked - one of the true great catastrophes.
And then there's ISIS. I have a simple message for them. Their days are numbered. I won't tell them where and I won't tell them how. We must...

... we must as a nation be more unpredictable. We are totally predictable. We tell everything. We're sending troops. We tell them. We're sending something else. We have a news conference. We have to be unpredictable. And we have to be unpredictable starting now.
But they're going to be gone. ISIS will be gone if I'm elected president. And they'll be gone quickly. They will be gone very, very quickly.

Secondly, we have to rebuild our military and our economy. The Russians and Chinese have rapidly expanded their military capability, but look at what's happened to us. Our nuclear weapons arsenal, our ultimate deterrent, has been allowed to atrophy and is desperately in need of modernization and renewal. And it has to happen immediately. Our active duty armed forces have shrunk from 2 million in 1991 to about 1.3 million today. The Navy has shrunk from over 500 ships to 272 ships during this same period of time. The Air Force is about one-third smaller than 1991. Pilots flying B-52s in combat missions today. These planes are older than virtually everybody in this room.
And what are we doing about this? President Obama has proposed a 2017 defense budget that in real dollars, cuts nearly 25 percent from what we were spending in 2011. Our military is depleted and we're asking our generals and military leaders to worry about global warming.
We will spend what we need to rebuild our military. It is the cheapest, single investment we can make. We will develop, build and purchase the best equipment known to mankind. Our military dominance must be unquestioned, and I mean unquestioned, by anybody and everybody.
But we will look for savings and spend our money wisely. In this time of mounting debt, right now we have so much debt that nobody even knows how to address the problem. But I do. No one dollar can be wasted. Not one single dollar can we waste. We're also going to have to change our trade, immigration and economic policies to make our economy strong again. And to put Americans first again.
This will ensure that our own workers, right here in America, get the jobs and higher pay that will grow our tax revenues, increase our economic might as a nation, make us strong financially again. So, so important. We need to think smart about areas where our technological superiority, and nobody comes close, gives us an edge.
This includes 3D printing, artificial intelligence and cyber warfare. A great country also takes care of its warriors. Our commitment to them is absolute, and I mean absolute. A trump administration will give our servicemen and women the best equipment and support in the world when they serve and where they serve. And the best care in the world when they return as veterans and they come back home to civilian life. Our veterans...

Our veterans have not been treated fairly or justly. These are our great people and we must treat them fairly. We must even treat them really, really well and that will happen under the Trump administration.

Finally, we must develop a foreign policy based on American interests. Businesses do not succeed when they lose sight of their core interests and neither do countries. Look at what happened in the 1990s. Our embassies in Kenya and Tanzania - and this was a horrible time for us - were attacked. and 17 brave sailors were killed on the USS Cole.
And what did we do? It seemed we put more effort into adding China into the World Trade organization, which has been a total disaster for the United States. Frankly, we spent more time on that than we did in stopping Al Qaida. We even had an opportunity to take out Osama bin Laden and we didn't do it
And then we got hit at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. Again, the worst attack on our country in its history. Our foreign policy goals must be based on America's core national security interests. And the following will be my priorities.
In the Middle East our goals must be, and I mean must be, to defeat terrorists and promote regional stability, not radical change. We need to be clear sighted about the groups that will never be anything other than enemies. And believe me, we have groups that no matter what you do, they will be the enemy.
We have to be smart enough to recognize who those groups are, who those people are, and not help them. And we must only be generous to those that prove they are indeed our friends.

We desire to live peacefully and in friendship with Russia and China. We have serious differences with these two nations, and must regard them with open eyes, but we are not bound to be adversaries. We should seek common ground based on shared interests.
Russia, for instance, has also seen the horror of Islamic terrorism. I believe an easing of tensions, and improved relations with Russia from a position of strength only is possible, absolutely possible. Common sense says this cycle, this horrible cycle of hostility must end and ideally will end soon. Good for both countries.
Some say the Russians won't be reasonable. I intend to find out. If we can't make a deal under my administration, a deal that's great - not good, great - for America, but also good for Russia, then we will quickly walk from the table. It's as simple as that. We're going to find out.
Fixing our relations with China is another important step - and really toward creating an even more prosperous period of time. China respects strength and by letting them take advantage of us economically, which they are doing like never before, we have lost all of their respect.
We have a massive trade deficit with China, a deficit that we have to find a way quickly, and I mean quickly, to balance. A strong and smart America is an America that will find a better friend in China, better than we have right now. Look at what China is doing in the South China Sea. They're not supposed to be doing it.
No respect for this country or this president. We can both benefit or we can both go our separate ways. If need be, that's what's going to have to happen.
After I'm elected president, I will also call for a summit with our NATO allies and a separate summit with our Asian allies. In these summits, we will not only discuss a rebalancing of financial commitments, but take a fresh look at how we can adopt new strategies for tackling our common challenges. For instance, we will discuss how we can upgrade NATO's outdated mission and structure, grown out of the Cold War to confront our shared challenges, including migration and Islamic terrorism.

I will not hesitate to deploy military force when there is no alternative. But if America fights, it must only fight to win.

I will never sent our finest into battle unless necessary, and I mean absolutely necessary, and will only do so if we have a plan for victory with a capital V.

Our goal is peace and prosperity, not war and destruction. The best way to achieve those goals is through a disciplined, deliberate and consistent foreign policy. With President Obama and Secretary Clinton we've had the exact opposite - a reckless, rudderless and aimless foreign policy, one that has blazed the path of destruction in its wake.
After losing thousands of lives and spending trillions of dollars, we are in far worst shape in the Middle East than ever, ever before. I challenge anyone to explain the strategic foreign policy vision of Obama/Clinton. It has been a complete and total disaster.
I will also be prepared to deploy America's economic resources. Financial leverage and sanctions can be very, very persuasive, but we need to use them selectively and with total determination.
Our power will be used if others do not play by the rules. In other words, if they do not treat us fairly. Our friends and enemies must know that if I draw a line in the sand, I will enforce that line in the sand. Believe me.

However, unlike other candidates for the presidency, war and aggression will not be my first instinct. You cannot have a foreign policy without diplomacy. A superpower understands that caution and restraint are really truly signs of strength. Although not in government service, I was totally against the war in Iraq, very proudly, saying for many years that it would destabilize the Middle East. Sadly, I was correct, and the biggest beneficiary has been has been Iran, who is systematically taking over Iraq and gaining access to their very rich oil reserves, something it has wanted to do for decades.
And now, to top it off, we have ISIS. My goal is to establish a foreign policy that will endure for several generations. That's why I also look and have to look for talented experts with approaches and practical ideas, rather than surrounding myself with those who have perfect resumes but very little to brag about except responsibility for a long history of failed policies and continued losses at war. We have to look to new people.

We have to look to new people because many of the old people frankly don't know what they're doing, even though they may look awfully good writing in the New York Times or being watched on television.
Finally, I will work with our allies to reinvigorate Western values and institutions. Instead of trying to spread universal values that not everybody shares or wants, we should understand that strengthening and promoting Western civilization and its accomplishments will do more to inspire positive reforms around the world than military interventions.

These are my goals as president. I will seek a foreign policy that all Americans, whatever their party, can support, so important, and which our friends and allies will respect and totally welcome. The world must know that we do not go abroad in search of enemies, that we are always happy when old enemies become friends and when old friends become allies, that's what we want. We want them to be our allies.
We want the world to be - we want to bring peace to the world. Too much destruction out there, too many destructive weapons. The power of weaponry is the single biggest problem that we have today in the world.
To achieve these goals, Americans must have confidence in their country and its leadership. Again, many Americans must wonder why we our politicians seem more interested in defending the borders of foreign countries than in defending their own. Americans...

Americans must know that we're putting the American people first again on trade.

So true. On trade, on immigration, on foreign policy. The jobs, incomes and security of the American worker will always be my first priority.

No country has ever prospered that failed to put its own interests first. Both our friends and our enemies put their countries above ours and we, while being fair to them, must start doing the same. We will no longer surrender this country or its people to the false song of globalism. The nation-state remains the true foundation for happiness and harmony. I am skeptical of international unions that tie us up and bring America down and will never enter...

And under my administration, we will never enter America into any agreement that reduces our ability to control our own affairs.

NAFTA, as an example, has been a total disaster for the United States and has emptied our states - literally emptied our states of our manufacturing and our jobs. And I've just gotten to see it. I've toured Pennsylvania. I've toured New York. I've toured so many of the states. They have been cleaned out. Their manufacturing is gone.
Never again, only the reverse - and I have to say this strongly - never again; only the reverse will happen. We will keep our jobs and bring in new ones. There will be consequences for the companies that leave the United States only to exploit it later. They fire the people. They take advantage of the United States. There will be consequences for those companies. Never again.
Under a Trump administration, no American citizen will ever again feel that their needs come second to the citizens of a foreign country.

I will view as president the world through the clear lens of American interests. I will be America's greatest defender and most loyal champion. We will not apologize for becoming successful again, but will instead embrace the unique heritage that makes us who we are.
The world is most peaceful and most prosperous when America is strongest. America will continue and continue forever to play the role of peacemaker. We will always help save lives and indeed humanity itself, but to play the role, we must make America strong again.

And always - always, always, we must make, and we have to look at it from every angle, and we have no choice, we must make America respected again. We must make America truly wealthy again. And we must - we have to and we will make America great again. And if we do that - and if we do that, perhaps this century can be the most peaceful and prosperous the world has ever, ever known. Thank you very much, everybody. I appreciate it. Thank you.

Thank you very much.

Thank you.
Thank you, Phoenix. I am so glad to be back in Arizona, a state
that has a very special place in my heart.

I love the people of Arizona and, together, we are going to win the
White House in November.

Tonight is not going to be a normal rally speech.

Instead, I am going to deliver a detailed policy address on one of
the greatest challenges facing our country today: immigration.

I have just landed having returned from a very important and special
meeting with the President of Mexico -- a man I like and respect
very much, and a man who truly loves his country. Just like I am a
man who loves the United States.

We agreed on the importance of ending the illegal flow of drugs,
cash, guns and people across our border, and to put the cartels out
of business.

We also discussed the great contributions of Mexican-American
citizens to our two countries, my love for the people of Mexico,
and the close friendship between our two nations.

It was a thoughtful and substantive conversation. This is the first
of what I expect will be many conversations in a Trump Administration
about creating a new relationship between our two countries.

But to fix our immigration system, we must change our leadership
in Washington. There is no other way.

The truth is, our immigration system is worse than anyone realizes.
But the facts aren't known because the media won't report on them,
the politicians won't talk about them, and the special interests
spend a lot of money trying to cover them up.

Today you will get the truth.

The fundamental problem with the immigration system in our country
is that it serves the needs of wealthy donors, political activists
and powerful politicians. Let me tell you who it doesn't serve: it
doesn't serve you, the American people.

When politicians talk about immigration reform, they usually mean
the following: amnesty, open borders, and lower wages.

Immigration reform should mean something else entirely: it should
mean improvements to our laws and policies to make life better for
American citizens.

But if we are going to make our immigration system work, then we
have to be prepared to talk honestly and without fear about these
important and sensitive issues.

For instance, we have to listen to the concerns that working people
have over the record pace of immigration and its impact on their
jobs, wages, housing, schools, tax bills, and living conditions.
These are valid concerns, expressed by decent and patriotic citizens
from all backgrounds.

We also have to be honest about the fact that not everyone who seeks
to join our country will be able to successfully assimilate. It is
our right as a sovereign nation to choose immigrants that we think
are the likeliest to thrive and flourish here.

Then there is the issue of security. Countless innocent American
lives have been stolen because our politicians have failed in their
duty to secure our borders and enforce our laws.

I have met with many of the parents who lost their children to
Sanctuary Cities and open borders. They will be joining me on the
stage later today.

Countless Americans who have died in recent years would be alive
today if not for the open border policies of this Administration.
This includes incredible Americans like 21-year-old Sarah Root. The
man who killed her arrived at the border, entered federal custody,
and then was released into a U.S. community under the policies of
this White House. He was released again after the crime, and is now
at large.

Sarah had graduated from college with a 4.0, top of her class, the
day before.

Also among the victims of the Obama-Clinton open borders policies
was Grant Ronnebeck, a 21 year-old convenience store clerk in Mesa,
Arizona. He was murdered by an illegal immigrant gang member
previously convicted of burglary who had also been released from
Federal Custody.

Another victim is Kate Steinle, gunned down in the Sanctuary City
of San Francisco by an illegal immigrant deported five previous
times.

Then there is the case of 90 year-old Earl Olander, who was brutally
beaten and left to bleed to death in his home. The perpetrators
were illegal immigrants with criminal records who did not meet the
Obama Administration's priorities for removal.

In California, a 64 year-old Air Force Veteran, Marilyn Pharis, was
sexually assaulted and beaten to death with a hammer. Her killer
had been arrested on multiple occasions, but was never deported.

A 2011 report from the Government Accountability Office found that
illegal immigrants and other non-citizens in our prisons and jails
together had around 25,000 homicide arrests to their names.

On top of that, illegal immigration costs our country more than
$113 billion dollars a year. For the money we are going to spend
on illegal immigration over the next ten years, we could provide
one million at-risk students with a school voucher.

While there are many illegal immigrants in our country who are good
people, this doesn't change the fact that most illegal immigrants
are lower-skilled workers with less education who compete directly
against vulnerable American workers, and that these illegal workers
draw much more out from the system than they will ever pay in.

But these facts are never reported.

Instead, the media and my opponent discuss one thing, and only this
one thing: the needs of people living here illegally.

The truth is, the central issue is not the needs of the 11 million
illegal immigrants -- or however many there may be.

That has never been the central issue. It will never be the central
issue.

Anyone who tells you that the core issue is the needs of those
living here illegally has simply spent too much time in Washington.

Only out of touch media elites think the biggest problem facing
American society today is that there are 11 million illegal immigrants
who don't have legal status.

To all the politicians, donors and special interests, hear these
words from me today: there is only one core issue in the immigration
debate and it is this: the well-being of the American people. Nothing
even comes a close second.

Hillary Clinton, for instance, talks constantly about her fears
that families will be separated. But she's not talking about the
American families who have been permanently separated from their
loved ones because of a preventable death. No, she's only talking
about families who came here in violation of the law.

We will treat everyone living or residing in our country with
dignity. We will be fair, just and compassionate to all. But our
greatest compassion must be for American citizens.

President Obama and Hillary Clinton have engaged in gross dereliction
of duty by surrendering the safety of the American people to open
borders. President Obama and Hillary Clinton support Sanctuary
Cities, they support catch-and-release on the border, they support
visa overstays, they support the release of dangerous criminals
from detention -- and they support unconstitutional executive amnesty.

Hillary Clinton has pledged amnesty in her first 100 days, and her
plan will provide Obamacare, Social Security and Medicare for illegal
immigrants -- breaking the federal budget. On top of that, she
promises uncontrolled low-skilled immigration that continues to
reduce jobs and wages for American workers, especially African-American
and Hispanic workers. This includes her plan to bring in 620,000
new refugees in a four-year term.

Now that you've heard about Hillary Clinton's plan -- about which
she has not answered a single substantive question -- let me tell
you about my plan.

While Hillary Clinton meets only with donors and lobbyists, my plan
was crafted with the input from federal immigration officers, along
with top immigration experts who represent workers, not corporations.
I also worked with lawmakers who've led on this issue on behalf of
American citizens for many years, and most importantly, I've met
with the people directly impacted by these policies.

Number One: We will build a wall along the Southern Border.

On day one, we will begin working on an impenetrable physical wall
on the southern border. We will use the best technology, including
above-and below-ground sensors, towers, aerial surveillance and
manpower to supplement the wall, find and dislocate tunnels, and
keep out the criminal cartels, and Mexico will pay for the wall.

Number Two: End Catch-And-Release

Under my Administration, anyone who illegally crosses the border
will be detained until they are removed out of our country.

Number Three: Zero tolerance for criminal aliens.

According to federal data, there are at least 2 million criminal
aliens now inside the country. We will begin moving them out day
one, in joint operations with local, state and federal law enforcement.

Beyond the 2 million, there are a vast number of additional criminal
illegal immigrants who have fled or evaded justice. But their days
on the run will soon be over. They go out, and they go out fast.

Moving forward, we will issue detainers for all illegal immigrants
who are arrested for any crime whatsoever, and they will be placed
into immediate removal proceedings. We will terminate the Obama
Administration's deadly non-enforcement policies that allow thousands
of criminal aliens to freely roam our streets.

Since 2013 alone, the Obama Administration has allowed 300,000
criminal aliens to return back into U.S. communities -- these are
individuals encountered or identified by ICE but who not detained
or processed for deportation.

My plan also includes cooperating closely with local jurisdictions
to remove criminal aliens.

We will restore the highly successful Secure Communities program.
We will expand and revitalize the popular 287(g) partnerships, which
will help to identify hundreds of thousands of deportable aliens
in local jails. Both of these programs have been recklessly gutted
by this Administration. This is yet one more area where we are
headed in a totally opposite direction.

On my first day in office, I am also going to ask Congress to pass
“Kate's Law” -- named for Kate Steinle -- to ensure that criminal
aliens convicted of illegal reentry face receive strong mandatory
minimum sentences.

Another reform I am proposing is the passage of legislation named
for Detective Michael Davis and Deputy Sheriff Danny Oliver, two
law enforcement officers recently killed by a previously-deported
illegal immigrant. The Davis-Oliver bill will enhance cooperation
with state and local authorities to ensure that criminal immigrants
and terrorists are swiftly identified and removed.

We are going to triple the number of ICE deportation officers.
Within ICE, I am going to create a new special Deportation Task
Force, focused on identifying and removing quickly the most dangerous
criminal illegal immigrants in America who have evaded justice.

The local police know who every one of these criminals are. There's
no great mystery to it, they've put up with it for years. And now,
finally, we will turn the tables and law enforcement will be allowed
to clear up this dangerous and threatening mess.

We're also going to hire 5,000 more Border Patrol agents, and put
more of them on the border, instead of behind desks. We will expand
the number of Border Patrol Stations.

I've had a chance to spend time with these incredible law enforcement
officers, and I want to take a moment to thank them. The endorsement
I've received from the Border Patrol officers means more to me than
I can say.

Number Four: Block Funding For Sanctuary Cities

We will end the Sanctuary Cities that have resulted in so many
needless deaths. Cities that refuse to cooperate with federal
authorities will not receive taxpayer dollars, and we will work
with Congress to pass legislation to protect those jurisdictions
that do assist federal authorities.

Number Five: Cancel Unconstitutional Executive Orders & Enforce All
Immigration Laws

We will immediately terminate President Obama's two illegal executive
amnesties, in which he defied federal law and the constitution to
give amnesty to approximately 5 million illegal immigrants.

Hillary Clinton has pledged to keep both of these illegal amnesty
programs -- including the 2014 amnesty which has been blocked by the
Supreme Court. Clinton has also pledged to add a third executive
amnesty.

Clinton's plan would trigger a Constitutional Crisis unlike almost
anything we have ever seen before. In effect, she would be abolishing
the lawmaking powers of Congress in order to write her own laws
from the Oval Office.

In a Trump Administration, all immigration laws will be enforced.
As with any law enforcement activity, we will set priorities. But,
unlike this Administration, no one will be immune or exempt from
enforcement -- and ICE and Border Patrol officers will be allowed
to do their jobs. Anyone who has entered the United States illegally
is subject to deportation -- that is what it means to have laws and
to have a country.

Our enforcement priorities will include removing criminals, gang
members, security threats, visa overstays, public charges -- that
is, those relying on public welfare or straining the safety net,
along with millions of recent illegal arrivals and overstays who've
come here under the current Administration.

Number Six: We Are Going To Suspend The Issuance Of Visas To Any
Place Where Adequate Screening Cannot Occur

According to data provided to the Senate Subcommittee on Immigration
and the National Interest, between 9/11 and the end of 2014, at
least 380 foreign-born individuals were convicted in terror cases
inside the United States. The number is likely higher, but the
Administration refuses to provide this information to Congress.

As soon as I enter office, I am going to ask the Department of
State, Homeland Security and the Department of Justice to begin a
comprehensive review of these cases in order to develop a list of
regions and countries from which immigration must be suspended until
proven and effective vetting mechanisms can be put into place.

Countries from which immigration will be suspended would include
places like Syria and Libya.

For the price of resettling 1 refugee in the United States, 12 could
be resettled in a safe zone in their home region.

Another reform involves new screening tests for all applicants that
include an ideological certification to make sure that those we are
admitting to our country share our values and love our people.

For instance, in the last five years, we've admitted nearly 100,000
immigrants from Iraq and Afghanistan -- in these two countries,
according to Pew research, a majority of residents say that the
barbaric practice of honor killings against women are often or
sometimes justified.

Applicants will be asked for their views about honor killings, about
respect for women and gays and minorities, attitudes on Radical
Islam, and many other topics as part of the vetting procedure.

Number Seven: We will ensure that other countries take their people
back when we order them deported

There are at least 23 countries that refuse to take their people
back after they have been ordered to leave the United States,
including large numbers of violent criminals. Due to a Supreme Court
decision, if these violent offenders cannot be sent home, our law
enforcement officers have to release them into U.S. communities.
There are often terrible consequences, such as Casey Chadwick's
tragic death in Connecticut just last year. Yet, despite the existence
of a law that commands the Secretary of State to stop issuing visas
to these countries, Secretary Hillary Clinton ignored this law and
refused to use this powerful tool to bring nations into compliance.

The result of her misconduct was the release of thousands of dangerous
criminal aliens who should have been sent home.

According to a report from the Boston Globe, from the year 2008
through 2014, nearly 13,000 criminal aliens were released back into
U.S. communities because their home countries would not take them
back. Many of these 13,000 releases occurred on Hillary Clinton's
watch -- she had the power and the duty to stop it cold and she
didn't do it.

Those released include individuals convicted of killings, sexual
assault and some of the most heinous crimes imaginable, who went
on to reoffend at a very high rate.

Number Eight: We will finally complete the biometric entry-exit
visa tracking system.

For years, Congress has required a biometric entry-exit visa tracking
system, but it has never been completed.

In my Administration, we will ensure that this system is in place
at all land, air, and sea ports. Approximately half of new illegal
immigrants came on temporary visas and then never left. Beyond
violating our laws, visa overstays pose a substantial threat to
national security. The 9/11 Commission said that this tracking
system should be a high priority and “would have assisted law
enforcement and intelligence officials in August and September 2001
in conducting a search for two of the 9/11 hijackers that were in
the U.S. on expired visas.”

Last year alone, nearly a half a million individuals overstayed
their temporary visas. Removing visa overstays will be a top priority
of my Administration. If people around the world believe they can
just come on a temporary visa and never leave -- the Obama-Clinton
policy -- then we have a completely open border. We must send the
message that visa expiration dates will be strongly enforced.

Number Nine: We will turn off the jobs and benefits magnet.

We will ensure that E-Verify is used to the fullest extent possible
under existing law, and will work with Congress to strengthen and
expand its use across the country.

Immigration law doesn't exist just for the purpose of keeping out
criminals. It exists to protect all aspects of American life -- the
worksite, the welfare office, the education system and much else.
That is why immigration limits are established in the first place.
If we only enforce the laws against crime, then we have an open
border to the entire world.

I will enforce all of our immigration laws.

The same goes for government benefits. The Center for Immigration
Studies estimates that 62 percent of households headed by illegal
immigrants used some form of cash or non-cash welfare programs,
like food stamps or housing assistance. This directly violates the
federal public charge law designed to protect the U.S. treasury.

Those who abuse our welfare system will be priorities for removal.

Number 10: We will reform legal immigration to serve the best
interests of America and its workers

We've admitted 59 million immigrants to the United States between
1965 and 2015.

Many of these arrivals have greatly enriched our country. But we
now have an obligation to them, and to their children, to control
future immigration -- as we have following previous immigration waves
– to ensure assimilation, integration and upward mobility.

Within just a few years immigration as a share of national population
is set to break all historical records.

The time has come for a new immigration commission to develop a new
set of reforms to our legal immigration system in order to achieve
the following goals:

· To keep immigration levels, measured by population share, within
historical norms

· To select immigrants based on their likelihood of success in U.S.
society, and their ability to be financially self-sufficient. We
need a system that serves our needs -- remember, it's America First.

· To choose immigrants based on merit, skill and proficiency

· And to establish new immigration controls to boost wages and to
ensure that open jobs are offered to American workers first.

We want people to come into our country, but they have to come in
legally and properly-vetted, and in a manner that serves the national
interest.

We've been living under outdated immigration rules from decades
ago. To avoid this happening in the future, I believe we should
sunset our visa laws so that Congress is forced to periodically
revise and revisit them. We wouldn't put our entire federal budget
on autopilot for decades, so why should we do the same for immigration?

Let's talk about the big picture

These ten steps, if rigorously followed and enforced, will accomplish
more in a matter of months than our politicians have accomplished
on this issue in the last fifty years.

Because I am not a politician, because I am not beholden to any
special interest, I will get this done for you and your family.

We will accomplish all of the steps outlined above, and when we do,
peace and law and justice and prosperity will prevail. Crime will
go down, border crossings will plummet, gangs will disappear, and
welfare use will decrease. We will have a peace dividend to spend
on rebuilding America, beginning with our inner cities.

For those here today illegally who are seeking legal status, they
will have one route and only one route: to return home and apply
for re-entry under the rules of the new legal immigration system
that I have outlined above. Those who have left to seek entry under
this new system will not be awarded surplus visas, but will have
to enter under the immigration caps or limits that will be established.

We will break the cycle of amnesty and illegal immigration. There
will be no amnesty.

Our message to the world will be this: you cannot obtain legal
status, or become a citizen of the United States, by illegally
entering our country.

This declaration alone will help stop the crisis of illegal crossings
and illegal overstays.

People will know that you can't just smuggle in, hunker down, and
wait to be legalized. Those days are over.

In several years, when we have accomplished all of our enforcement
goals -- and truly ended illegal immigration for good, including the
construction of a great wall, and the establishment of our new
lawful immigration system -- then and only then will we be in a
position to consider the appropriate disposition of those who remain.
That discussion can only take place in an atmosphere in which illegal
immigration is a memory of the past, allowing us to weigh the
different options available based on the new circumstances at the
time.

Right now, however, we are in the middle of a jobs crisis, a border
crisis, and a terrorism crisis. All energies of the federal government
and the legislative process must now be focused on immigration
security. That is the only conversation we should be having at this
time.

Whether it's dangerous materials being smuggled across the border,
terrorists entering on visas, or Americans losing their jobs to
foreign workers, these are the problems we must now focus on fixing
– and the media needs to begin demanding to hear Hillary Clinton's
answer on how her policies will affect Americans and their security.

These are matters of life-and-death for our country and its people,
and we deserve answers from Hillary Clinton.

What we do know, despite the total lack of media curiosity, is that
Hillary Clinton promises a radical amnesty combined with a radical
reduction in immigration enforcement. The result will be millions
more illegal immigrants, thousands more violent crimes, and total
chaos and lawlessness.

This election is our last chance to secure the border, stop illegal
immigration, and reform our laws to make your life better.

This is it. We won't get another opportunity -- it will be too late.

So I want to remind everyone what we are fighting for -- and who we
are fighting for.

So I am going to ask all the Angel Moms to come join me on the stage
right now.

Now is the time for these voices to be heard.

Now is the time for the media to begin asking questions on their
behalf.

Now is the time for all of us, as one country, Democrat and Republican,
liberal and conservative, to band together to deliver justice and
safety and security for all Americans.

Let's fix this problem.

Let's secure our border.

Let's stop the drugs and the crime.

Let's protect our Social Security and Medicare.

And let's get unemployed Americans off of welfare and back to work
in their own country.

Together, we can save American lives, American jobs, and American
futures.

Together, we can save America itself.

Join me in this mission to Make America Great Again.

Thank you, and God Bless you all!

DONALD TRUMP: Where do you start the movie? I think it’s actually — and very interesting question — but I think the start was standing on top of the escalator at Trump Tower on June 16, which is the day — Bob, you were there, and you know what I mean, because there has. . . . I mean, it looked like the Academy Awards. I talk about it. There were so many cameras. So many — it was packed. The atrium of Trump Tower, which is a very big place, was packed. It literally looked like the Academy Awards. And . . .  .

Before that? Okay, because that was really . . .  .

ROBERT COSTA: Maybe late 2014 or before you started hiring people?

Well, but that was — okay, but I will tell you, until the very end. . . . You know, I have a good life. I built a great company. It’s been amazingly — I’m sure you looked at the numbers. I have very little debt, tremendous assets. And great cash flows. I have a wonderful family. Ivanka just had a baby. Doing this is not the easiest thing in the world to do. People have — many of my friends, very successful people, have said, "Why would you do this?"

So is there a linchpin moment, Mr. Trump, where it went from maybe to yes, I’m going to do this? And when was that?

Yeah. I would really say it was at the beginning of last year, like in January of last year. And there were a couple of times. One was, I was doing a lot of deals. I was looking at very seriously one time, not — they say, oh, he looked at it for many — I really, no. I made a speech at the end of the '80s in New Hampshire, but it was really a speech that was, it was not a political speech. But because it happened to be in New Hampshire . . .  .

And that guy was trying to draft you.

And he was a very nice guy. But he asked me. And he was so intent, and I made a speech. It was not a political speech, anyway, and I forgot about it.

And that was the real possibility? Or the first . . .  .

Well no, the real possibility was the Romney time, or the Romney term. This last one four years ago. I looked at that, really. I never looked at it seriously then. I was building my business, I was doing well. And I went up to New Hampshire, made a speech. And because it was in New Hampshire, it was sort of like, Trump is going to run. And since then people have said, Trump is going to run. I never was interested. I could almost say at all, gave it very little thought, other than the last time, where Romney was running. And I thought that Romney was a weak candidate. I thought that — I thought Obama was very beatable. Very, very beatable. You know, you had a president who was not doing well, to put it nicely. And I looked at that very seriously. I had some difficulty because I was doing some big jobs that were finishing up, which I wanted to do. My children were younger. And four years makes a big difference. And I also had a signed contract to do "The Apprentice" with NBC. Which in all fairness, you know, sounds like — when you’re talking about “president” it doesn’t sound much, but when you have a two-hour show, prime time, every once a week on a major network . . .  .

So when did it go to yes?

So — okay.

Because that’s — having made, you know, we all make minor decisions in our lives.

Okay.

This is the big one.

Big decision. Yeah, this is a big decision. And I say, sometimes I’ll say it in the speeches. It takes guts to run for president, especially if you’re not a politician, you’ve never . . .  .

When did it become yes?

What happened is, during that time that I was just talking about, I started saying I’d like to do it, but I wasn’t really in a position to do it. I was doing a lot of things, and I had a signed contract with NBC. But I started thinking about it. And the press started putting me in polls, and I was winning in the polls. In fact, the day before, I was on "Meet the Press" the day before I announced I wasn’t going to do it, and I got signed for another two years of "The Apprentice" and everything else. Which, by the way, I don’t know if you saw, but "The Apprentice" is a big thing. I made two hundred . . .  .

You made a lot of money.

Yeah. You were shocked. Remember this crazy man, Lawrence O’Donnell — he’s a total crazy nut — he said, Donald Trump only made a million dollars with "The Apprentice." I said, "A million dollars?" You know, when you have a show that’s essentially number one almost every time it goes on, you can name it. . . . So anyway, when they added it all up — and these are certified numbers, because you have to do certified numbers — it came out to $213 million. Okay? That’s what I made on "The Apprentice." That’s just — and that’s one of my small things. That’s what I made. You know? So it was put at $213 million, and it was certified. And your friend Joe in the morning said, "There’s no way he only made. . . ." They had a big fight, and O’Donnell, Lawrence O’Donnell started crying. I never saw anything like it. Do you remember? He started crying. [Laughter] He actually started crying. But that shows the level of hatred that people have. But what happened is, I made — I had a very, very successful show. And they put me in polls, and I was essentially leading right at the top, without doing any work. Not one speech, not one anything. But any time I was in a poll, I did very well in the poll. Anyway, I decided not to do it. NBC called and Mark Burnett would call, and I did see if I could get out. I had another year on the contract. Because you’re not allowed, because of the equal time, you’re not allowed to have a show . . .  .

Well, that’s what — I mean. . . . Between 2011 and 2014? I would say, just thought process. Only thought process.

HOPE HICKS: A lot of deals.

Yeah, I mean, I was doing — but in terms of this, only thought process. So what happened, but during this period of time, I said, you know, this is something I really would like to do. I think I’d do it really well. Obviously the public seems to like me, because without any . . .  .

Who are you saying that to? Your wife?

To myself.

To your family?

To my family, but to myself.

To yourself.

Yeah, to myself, and . . .  .

This is interior dialogue.

This is thought process. And I’m saying to myself, you know, look, they put me in these polls. I’m number one. In fact, I said, I’m probably the only person ever to announce I’m not going to run for president when I’m number one in the polls. Because I remember the week that I announced that I wasn’t going to run and that I was going to — that basically NBC extended me for quite a period of time. And the week . . .  . Oh, this is my son Don. Bob and Bob.

DONALD TRUMP JR.: I know. At least I know one Bob. How are you?

[Introductions]

So during — and I spoke to Don, I spoke to my children about it. But during this period of time, I said, you know, I think I could probably do very well if I did it. But I didn’t do it because of contractual obligations, because I was finishing up things. Actually, this is one of the things right now. This started afterward. This started, we’re actually a year and a half ahead of schedule and under budget on this hotel. So what happened, Bob, what happened is . . .  . But during this period, I started really thinking during this period of time. And then Romney was a very, very failed and flawed candidate. He did a very poor job. Because I always felt that was a race that should’ve been won. I think in many respects that’s an easier race than the race you have now. And Romney did a poor job. And we all go back to work. Then about a year before June 16 — that’s the day that I announced — I started really thinking about it very, very strongly. But the show continued to do very well. You know, 14 seasons, that’s a long time. But it continued to do very well.

Can you isolate a moment when it kicked to yes?

Well, I’ll tell you a moment.

Because that’s what Bob and I are looking for.

I’ll tell you a moment when it kicked to yes. Because it was a monetary moment also. So you saw that it made a lot of money because it was certified. Now it’s much more, because I also have a big chunk of the show. We chose Arnold Schwarzenegger to take my place. Okay? And hopefully Arnold will do well; who knows? But there was a moment in, I would say, February of last year, so that would be four months, three, four months before I announced, when Steve Burke, great guy, of Comcast — the head — came to see me with the top people at NBC. And they wanted to extend my contract. And I said, "Steve, I think that I am going to run for president. And if I do that, I’m not allowed to have a show." In fact, when I did "Saturday Night Live" recently, it was a whole big deal. I’m not allowed to be on, and they actually had to give certain periods of time to other candidates that were running. It was a whole big . . .  . So. I disagree with the equal time provisions. I think they’re very unfair. But nevertheless, you have them. So I said, "Steve, I can’t have a show if I run. I can’t be having a show, so I’m not going to run." He says, "No, no, no, you’re going to do it." I said, "Steve, I’m going to." And they actually went to the upfronts and they announced that "The Apprentice" — in fact, you had a problem with it, because you were hearing that I was going to run, and then they announce that they’re going to renew "The Apprentice" with Donald Trump. And I remember he called one of my people, maybe Hope. But he called one of my people and said, "Wait a minute, he’s going to run, but he just announced he’s doing 'The Apprentice.' " Do you remember that problem?

I didn’t announce it. It was NBC, they so wanted the show to be renewed.

Well, okay. Sure. Okay. Prior to that, I just felt there were so many things going wrong with the country. In particular, because I’m a very natural person when it comes to business, I assume — I mean, I’ve done really well, and I do have an instinct for that — and I felt that we were doing some of the worst trade deals ever. And then you look at what’s going on in Iran with the beginning of negotiations of that disastrous deal. You know, look, it could’ve been a much better deal, Bob. They could’ve walked a couple of times. They could’ve doubled the sanctions for a couple of days and gotten the prisoners out early. They could’ve done so many things. To give the $150 billion back was terrible. So it was a terrible deal. It was a terrible negotiation. It was negotiated by people that are poor negotiators against great negotiators. Persians being great negotiators, okay? It’s one of those things. You might be Persian. But the Iranians, frankly, are great negotiators. The deal was a disaster. But I would see so many things. And it would make me angry.

What made you angriest?

I would say in my case, more than anything else, the stupidity of the trade deals that we have with China, with Japan, with Mexico, with other . . .  . Because that’s something that I see. And I didn’t know that it would hit such a chord, because it’s hit a chord with a lot of . . .  .

So when did you tell somebody in your family or your circle, "I’ve decided to run." Other words, I’ve pulled the switch.

Well, I would tell my family about it all the time. Don is one of my sons, and doing a really good job. He’s involved very much in this job. . . . Don and my family, I would talk about it a lot. I would say, "I can’t believe they’re doing it." And another thing would happen. I own a big part of the Bank of America building in San Francisco [and]  1290 Avenue of the Americas. I got it from China. Meaning Chinese people had it. It was a big thing. It was a war, it was actually a war.

Did anyone recommend no? Did your wife, or did your son?

Oh. Yeah.

Did anyone say, "Dad, Donald, don’t do it?"

I think my wife would much have preferred that I didn’t do it. She’s a very private person. She was a very, very successful — very, very successful model. She made a tremendous amount of money and had great success and dealt at the . . .  .

What’d she say?

She was, she said, we have such a great life. "Why do you want to do this?" She was . . .  .

And what’d you say?

I said, "I sort of have to do it, I think. I really have to do it." Because it’s something I’d be — I could do such a great job. I really wanted to give something back. I don’t want to act overly generous, but I really wanted to give something back.

Well, that’s the important moment, when you say, I have to do it.

Yeah, I had to.

That’s the product of the endless internal dialogue.

Well, she’s a very private person, and very smart person. I’m sure you’ve seen a couple of interviews that she’s done. She’s very smart. And there’s no games. You know, it’s boom, it’s all business. But a very smart person. And considered one of the great beauties.

Did she give you the green light?

And she said, "Why are we doing the . . .  ." Oh, absolutely. She said, "If you want to do it, then you should do it, but . . .  ." And she actually said something that was very interesting. She’s very observant. And she would go around with me. And look, I’ve been around for a long time at a high level. That’s why you were up in my office in, I guess it was ’89, I can’t believe. So that might help you with your check. Check ’89, ’88. But I’ve been around a long time. She said, "You know if you run, you’ll win." I said, "I don’t know if I’m going to win." She said, "If you run, you’ll win. But if you say you’re going to run, they’re never going to – people are not going to believe it." Because people were let down the first time, I will tell you. They really wanted me to run, and I would’ve beaten Romney. They really — they wanted me to run that time. So for the most part, the polls didn’t include me. And then one poll included me, and I didn’t do that well. I was down at like 3 percent. I said to my wife, "I don’t think I can run. I’m down at 3 percent." Boy, that’s a long way to go up. And she goes, "No, no, no, you’re only at 3 percent because they don’t believe you’re running. If they thought you were going to run . . .  ." I said,"No, no, the poll said I’m going to run." She said, "No, no, they still don’t believe it." It doesn’t matter what the poll says. The poll can say, you are going to run, Donald Trump is going to absolutely run. It was very interesting. Sort of like — I called her my pollster. She said, "No, no, they won’t believe that. I don’t care if they put it in, if they put it at the top of your building, 'I’m going to run.' They’re not going to believe it unless that you go out and announce that you’re going to run." And she said, "I hope you don’t do it, but if you run, you’ll win."

So it was an evolution.

WOODWARD: Yeah.

And then the big thing, by the way, the big thing was standing at the top of that escalator, looking down into that room — which was a sea of reporters, of which he was one, but a sea — that was as big as anything we’ve had. And getting up and saying, all right. And I remember. I took a deep breath. I said, "Let’s go," to my wife. And you know, we came down. Pretty famous scene, the escalator scene. Boom. And we started, and we talked illegal immigration, and it became a very big subject, and that’s where we started.

Okay. So first of all, I have to get there. Because I view it as a highly competitive process. I’ve been, it’s very interesting, I’ve done very well up until now. I’ve taken out a lot of people. We had 17 people.

Other words, what’s the definition of the job?

Okay. I think more than anything else, it’s the security of our nation. That’s always going to be – that’s number one, two and three. After that, many things come into focus. It’s health, it’s health care. It’s jobs. It’s the economy. But number one —and I say number one, two, three — is the security of the country. The military, being strong, not letting bad things happen to our country from the outside. And I certainly think that that’s always going to be my number one part of that definition.

Any . . .  . Before coming over, Bob and I have had lots of chats. And we were thinking about this, that you are running for the nomination in the Republican Party.

Right.

Which is the party of Lincoln and the party of Nixon. . . . And so we have this party that you are running to be the nominee in, and it’s got two heritages. Lincoln and Nixon.

That’s true. That’s true.

And why did Lincoln succeed? Thought about that at all?

Well, I think Lincoln succeeded for numerous reasons. He was a man who was of great intelligence, which most presidents would be. But he was a man of great intelligence, but he was also a man that did something that was a very vital thing to do at that time. Ten years before or 20 years before, what he was doing would never have even been thought possible. So he did something that was a very important thing to do, and especially at that time. And Nixon failed, I think to a certain extent, because of his personality. You know? It was just that personality. Very severe, very exclusive. In other words, people couldn’t come in. And people didn’t like him. I mean, people didn’t like him.

And he broke the law.

And he broke the law, yeah. Yeah. He broke the law. Whether that’s insecurity . . .  .

I mean, you listen to those tapes, and he’s a criminal.

Yeah. Whether that’s — right. And he broke the law.

And time and time again, break in, get the FBI on this, get the IRS on.

Sure. Sure.

I mean, it is an appalling legacy of criminality.

Right.

And at the end, the day he resigned, an amazing day, he gives that speech which is kind of free association about mom and dad.

Right.

He’s sweating. And then he said, “Always remember: Others may hate you, but those who hate you don’t win unless you hate them, and then you destroy yourself.” The piston was hate.

Well, and he was actually talking very much about himself, because ultimately, ultimately, that is what destroyed him. Hate is what destroyed him. And such an interesting figure. I mean, you would know that better than anybody. But such an interesting figure. And such a man of great talent. I mean, Nixon had great potential, great talent. Unfortunately it was a very sad legacy in the end. It turned out to be a very sad legacy. Such an interesting figure to study. I think. . . .

Do you take any lessons from that? Because what did is he converted the presidency to an instrument of personal revenge.

Yeah.

You’re my enemy, I’m going to get you. I’m going to get so-and-so on you.

Yeah. No, I don’t. I don’t see that. What I do see is — what I am amazed at is, I’m somebody that gets along with people. And sometimes I’ll notice, I’ll be, I have the biggest crowds. Actually we’ve purposefully kept the crowds down this past week. You know, we’ve gone into small venues and we’re turning away thousands and thousands of people, which I hate, but we didn’t want to have the protest. You know, when you have a room of 2,000 people, you can pretty much keep it without the protesters. When you have 21 or 25,000 people coming in, people can start standing up and screaming. What has been amazing to me — I’m a very inclusive person. I actually am somebody that gets along with people. And yet from a political standpoint, although I certainly have a lot of fans — you just said hello to Senator Sessions. Cruz and everybody wanted Senator Sessions as much as they’ve wanted anybody, and he’s a highly respected guy, great guy. And we have some— and he endorsed me. We have some amazing endorsements, some amazing people, but I’m amazed at the level of animosity toward me by some people. I’m amazed.

I think you may be right. I think you may be right.

Okay.

No, I say in my life I’ve gotten along with people.

This is the first time where I’ve had this.

Well, let me tell you the biggest problem that I have. And I talk about it a lot. I get a very unfair press. I’m somebody that’s a person that understands when I say — when I say, I say what I say. But I really do get a very, very unfair press. And a lot of times I’ll be making a speech, as an example, in front of a — in Orlando, where you have 20, 25,000 people show up in the sun at 3  in the afternoon in an open venue. And I will be saying things, and Bob, it won’t be reported what I say. It will be reported so differently.

Well, the problem with my view of the . . .  .

No, you’re right, but if the press would report what I say, I think I would go a long way to doing that. Now, there is a natural bias against me because I’m a businessperson, I’m not in the club. Okay? You understand that. I’m not in the club. I’m not a senator, I’m not a politician. I’m not somebody that’s been in Congress for 25 years, and I know everybody, I’m somebody — I’m very much an outsider. I am also somebody that’s self-funding my campaign, other than small contributions.

But the press likes outsiders. I mean . . .  .

But the press doesn’t like me. For the most part.

And would you blame the problem on the press, on the media coverage?

No, I, but I think . . . I do say this: My media coverage is not honest. It really isn’t. And I’m not saying that as a person with some kind of a complex. I’m just saying, I will be saying words that are written totally differently from what I’ve said. And I see it all — in all fairness, the editorial board of The Washington Post. I was killed on that. I left the room, I thought it was fine.

Well, I think — it’s a great question, and it’s a question I’ve thought about a lot. I mean, I think the first thing I have to do is win. Winning solves a lot of problems. And I have two people left. We started off with 17 people. I have two people left. And one of the problems I have is that when I hit people, I hit them harder maybe than is necessary. And it’s almost impossible to reel them back. . . .  So [a famous athlete] calls me up about a month ago, right after I beat Rubio. And I beat him by 20 points. That was a big beating. Don’t forget, he was the face of the Republican Party. He was the future of the Republican Party. So [he] called me up. And he said, “Hey Donald, could you do us all a favor? We love you. Don’t kill everybody. Because you may need them on the way back.” You know, you may need them when you go to phase 3, or whatever phase you’re looking . . .  .

Because here’s what — what Bob Costa and I were talking about, and we appreciate this moment to really get into these things.

I just thought it was a great . . .  . You know, especially . . .  .

No, no, exactly. Having done this, reporting, so many years — too many decades — that I’ve thought about, what’s politics? All politics, all successful politics, is about coalition building.

It’s true.

Do you agree?

I do. I agree. I agree.

And if you look . . .  .

But I think you have to break the egg initially. In other words, I agree with you, but when you’re coming from where I’m coming from — I came from the outside. By the way, I was establishment. I was an establishment guy until I said I’m running. And then when I said I don’t want anyone’s money, that drove everyone . . .  . I mean, outside of the small contributions, you know, the stuff. . . . But — because — and even — the reason for the small — we get lots of little contributions. What does it amount to? Six, 7 million dollars? And we sell paraphernalia, we sell the Trump shirt and the Trump hat, little stuff. But it still amounted to like 6 million dollars, seven. But I’m in for about $35 million. But I don’t want any money. Bob, I have turned down — I would have made — Bush had $148 million. I would’ve had five times that much if I wanted to take it.

But you said it: Sometimes you have to break an egg.

Sometimes you have to break an egg.

And haven’t you broken enough eggs?

Well, if that’s the question, I think I have two more left.

And . . .  . Okay, but at this point of — as you — Bob Costa, from his perspective of knowing the Republican Party . . . and the question is, how do you coalition-build, how do you unbreak those eggs?

So that’s the question.

I’m looking to win first. I really believe that once . . .  . My life has been about victories. I’ve won a lot. I win a lot. I win —when I do something, I win. And even in sports, I always won. I was always a good athlete. And I always won. In golf, I’ve won many club championships. Many, many club championships. And I have people that can play golf great, but they can’t win under pressure. So I’ve always won.

But Bob’s question is right at the heart of this. Because you said about Senator Cruz, I don’t want his support.

Oh, is that what you’re referring to?

Yeah. And he is, whatever you may think of him, and whatever battles you’ve had, he represents the Reagan conservative . . .  .

No, I don’t think he represents Reagan.

That’s how he’s selling himself.

Okay. Well, maybe now how he’s selling himself.

That’s perceived. And if you’re going to be the nominee, you need the conservatives in the party.

Yeah. Well, but I also need the outside people, and I’m definitely now the outsider. Cruz is interesting. We got along very well.

Initially?

I would make provocative statements, and he would say, "I agree with Mr. Trump." I mean, he was above all. But I kept saying, "I wonder when he will attack." Because ultimately, assuming . . .  . Because I’ve been at the center of the dais from day one. And even the other day, NBC came out with a poll, I’m at 48 to twenty-something. You know, that’s a national poll. So what happened is he was, could not have been more supportive. And in fact, he made a speech, he was making a big speech in Washington, and he didn’t have that many people going. And he called me and he said, "Would it be possible for you to come?" I made it outside of the capital, right in front of the capital, and I came and a tremendous number of people came and it was very successful. We shook hands and I left and that was that. But I got along with Cruz, Cruz, great. But I always said, Bob, and you were there, I said, at some point, this is going to end. Because people would say, you’re the only two.

Yeah. And at some point the nomination.

I am. Because I understand life. And I understand how life works. I’m the Lone Ranger. And I said the other day — I watched Cruz as he tried to be as politically correct as he could be. And they say, well, will you support? And I watched him during the debate, and he said yes, and Rubio said yes, and everybody said yes. Because that was the thing to do. We have to support the party. But I watched him struggling the other day, struggling so hard, to not use the word “no” when asked about will he support Donald Trump. At the same time, not wanting to — wishing the question wasn’t asked. Because he didn’t want to do anything that would be offensive to the party, let’s say, and to standard politics.

Can I just say for . . .  .

But Bob, what I told him...

Yes sir.

What I said is that, I watched that, and I said, look, he doesn’t have to support me. It really doesn’t matter. I don’t want to make his life difficult.

But can you be president and be Lone Ranger?

Um . . .  .

I mean, as we were talking about Lincoln – if we may.

Yeah.

Lincoln’s second inaugural, he’s won the war, he has broken more eggs than any president ever.

He broke a lot of eggs.

And he comes out and in his second inaugural he said, “Malice toward none, charity for all, bind up the nation’s wounds.”

Right.

Other words, he’s saying, let’s go back and coalition-build between the North and the South. Isn’t that a moment you’re going to have to face?

Totally, totally.

Or is that not right now, this moment?

I don’t think it’s now.

You don’t?

No, because I think I have to win before I can do that. Look, I’ve had...

Might that not assist in the winning?

No, because you have two people that want to win also, and they’re not going to be changing their ways.

Okay. As you know, certain polls have me beating Hillary Clinton, but I haven’t focused on Hillary Clinton yet. Okay? And I say that all the time. I have not focused on her.  I’ve only focused on the people that are ahead of me, and right now I have two people. I don’t have to think about whether it’s going to be Hillary or somebody else. I’d love your view on what’s going to happen with Hillary from the other standpoint, okay? Because that’s really going to be a very interesting question. And it seems to be heating up, which is almost a little surprising, because it looked to me like she’s being protected. But my family said to me – and Don has said this, and Ivanka, and my wife has said this – "Be more presidential." Because I can be very presidential. I jokingly say, I can be more presidential than any president that this country has ever had except for Abraham Lincoln, because he was [unclear]. Right? You can’t out-top Abraham Lincoln.

Isn’t that what people want to see now?

Yeah. Yeah, but they said... Yes.

In the Republican Party, I mean . . . there is a lot of angst and rage and distress.

A lot. Record-setting.

Record-setting.

I bring...

And you have to tame that rage, don’t you?

Yes, yes, but I bring that out in people. I do. I’m not saying that’s an asset or a liability, but I do bring that out.

You bring what out?

I bring rage out. I do bring rage out. I always have. I think it was . . .  . I don’t know if that’s an asset or a liability, but whatever it is, I do. I also bring great unity out, ultimately. I’ve had many occasions like this, where people have hated me more than any human being they’ve ever met. And after it’s all over, they end up being my friends. And I see that happening here. But when my wife and Ivanka and the rest of my family, for the most part — Tiffany, my daughter, she’s a very smart young woman, she’s up at University of Pennsylvania doing great — and she said to me the same thing.

Be presidential?

Be presidential. Now . . .  .

When did they start saying this to you?

Well, they really started saying it before the last debate. The last debate. And if you noticed, my attitude was much different in the last debate, okay? But I said, wait a minute. According to every single — you know, Drudge, and all of the polls, they do these online – they have polls for everything. They do debate polls. And you know what I’m talking about.

Hundreds of thousands of people vote. I won every single debate. Every single debate. And I was rough and I was nasty. And I was treated nastily by the other side too. And then Rubio went, you know, Rubio went Don Rickles on me, and all of a sudden he became cute and he started getting extremely nasty. And I had to get even nastier to him. Now, what happened —and then started with the Little Marco. Come on, Little Marco. Little Marco over here said this and that. And he didn’t want to — he didn’t stop that, he didn’t stop that because he was told, oh, he should stop. He stopped that because I was outdoing him. But here’s the thing.

We understand the history of this. We followed.

Right, but here’s the thing.

Wait.

Okay, so my family comes up. Don. My daughter Tiffany, who’s a great kid. Ivanka. My wife. And we were together. They said, "Be presidential, Dad, be presidential." Last debate. I said, wait a minute. If I get hit, I’m going to hit back. That’s not going to look very presidential, because I hit back and you hit back. I said, I’m going to give it a shot. And I was actually — you know, the last debate was actually a much different debate . . .  .

RCO: Right.

In terms of my tone. And I actually got my highest ratings on that debate.

Not yet. Not yet.

No.

My — yes, always to fight. My natural inclination is to win. And after I win, I will be so presidential that you won’t even recognize me. You’ll be falling asleep, you’ll be so bored.

Really. But when Ted Cruz said what he said, and then you said, I don’t need his support.

I don’t need his support. I don’t believe I need it.

Now, what would your family say to you?

Well, what I said is, I don’t need his . . .  .

What would a president say? What would Reagan say? What would Lincoln say if the opposition came and said whatever they said, and then you said  . . .  .

Well Bob . . .  .

 Hey, look, we are going to bind up  . . .  .

Yeah.

Not the nation’s wounds at this point, the party’s . . .  .

I don’t think — I have the people’s support. I have a tremendous group. And by the way, let me just, before we get off that one — because you were saying about Cruz — it wasn’t like he embraced me.

No, he didn’t.

It wasn’t like he said, oh, I will endorse Donald Trump. He is so wonderful, and if I don’t make it he is somebody that I think would be fantastic. Well, he didn’t exactly say that, Bob. He said . . .  . He was pained having to answer the question.

Right.

So it wasn’t like I’m saying, I don’t want his support, as he says great things about me. So I had no guilt whatsoever saying it. I do believe it.

Do you think you’re going to be at a point where you’re going to have to call him and say, "Ted, I need you?"

I’ll never have to call him. I may be at a point where I call him, but I never will . . .  .

And what would you say? If you won the nomination, would you call him and say . . .  .

I would call him to say congratulations on a great job. Because out of 17 people, you beat 16. Okay? Which is pretty good, to put it mildly. You know, we had a lot of talent. When I first ran, and this is where I had some doubts, because what do I know? I didn’t know most of these people. Although I’d been very political. I’d given a lot of money. I gave $350,000 last year to the Republican Governors Association. I was a member of the establishment, if you think about it, and very high standing because of . . .  .

Could you say to Ted Cruz, "Ted, the coalition-building is going to begin right now. I need your support and help and advice?"

I don’t think I’d say it that way, but I would be able . . .  .

How would you say it?

. . . to get along with some of the people that I was competing against. Now, I will say this: Some of the people that I was competing against, I’m not sure they can ever go back to me. I was very rough on Jeb. I was told when I first started that Jeb was the preemptive favorite. He was going to  . . .  .

I don’t think — look . . .  .

I think that’s overrated, what you’re saying, about bringing them into the fold. At the same time, I think I would be successful with many of them. I don’t know that I’ll be successful with Jeb Bush.

How about Cruz? What would you say to him, Donald?

I think I would . . .  .

Because this is really — I think this . . .  .

Yeah, I understand.

We get pivot points, and we’re going from a phase of . . .  .

I think Cruz and I could get along very well. I actually think so. We got along very well for six months.

Would you say, "I need your support?"

We got along very well for six months when I was attacking everybody.

Right. But now you’re going to have to reach out to him, aren’t you, if this is going to work?

Well, we’ll have to see what happens. I don’t think now, Bob, because he wants to win and I want to win. And I guess Kasich wants to win, although Kasich’s only won one out of 28, right? That’s not so good.

Yeah, and got along. And truly disliked each other.

Yeah.

I would never want to say that now. Right now, I just want to win. And I don’t want to say who’s going to be — as an example, people are saying, you should pick so-and-so as vice president. It’s just too early for that. In my opinion, it’s too . . .   .

I do. I do have names.

I’d rather not do it now.

COREY LEWANDOWSKI: But Dr. Carson’s come to the campaign, and Chris Christie’s come to the campaign, and they were rivals in the past. And they said there was one person who we believe is going to make the country great again.

Very good point.

The only thing I did with Dr. Carson — because I respect him a lot — but I just talked about his book. Because he wrote things in his book, and all I did was quote from his book. Because, you know, it was tough stuff what he wrote about himself. He wrote about himself. It’s an amazing story. And he . . .  .

Without names . . . .

. . . understands that.

. . . as vice president, what would be the role and responsibilities of your vice president, should you be elected, should you win the nomination?

Well, the number one role is to be a great president if something should happen. Okay? That’s always got to be the number one role for a vice president. After that, I would say, frankly, somebody that can help you get elected. And then thirdly, somebody that helps you with the Senate and with the House. So it would be a political person. In other words, I don’t need to have another great businessman come in and — I don’t need that. What I do . . .  .

Somebody who knows dreaded Washington, perhaps.

Somebody that can walk into the Senate and who’s been friendly with these guys for 25 years, and people for 25 years. And can get things done. So I would 95 percent see myself picking a political person as opposed to somebody from the outside.

And would that person be integral to the governing team you would have in the White House? Go to all meetings, have total access?

Yes, I would. . . . Sure. Sure. This would be a vice president — I would like to have somebody. . . . For instance, somebody like Ben Carson. When Ben Carson came to me — not necessarily vice president — but when he came to me, he called, he said, "What you’re doing is amazing. It’s a movement. And you see that." When I announce I’m going to go to Tampa three days before, and we go there three days later, there’s 25,000 people in the stadium that houses the professional sports teams . . .   .

Yeah.

Somebody like Ben Carson, he never once said to me, could I have a position?

No, no, he doesn’t. But he will be absolutely somebody that I’d love to have involved with us at a high level, at a very high level. Chris Christie. Chris called, he said, I’d love to be involved. And I said, that’s great. I’ve never been a big one for endorsements. Although Tom Brady loves me in New England; I think that’s why I got 50 percent. Okay? Tom Brady loves me. [Laughter] That helped.

Great loyalty, yes. Great discretion, great loyalty.

Well, it’s . . .  .

I think they should. You know, when somebody — and I see it all the time. . . .  And I don’t know, there could be some kind of a law that you can’t do this. But when people are chosen by a man to go into government at high levels and then they leave government and they write a book about a man and say a lot of things that were really guarded and personal, I don’t like that. I mean, I’ll be honest. And people would say, oh, that’s terrible, you’re taking away his right to free speech. Well, he’s going in. . . .  I would say . . . I do have nondisclosure deals. That’s why you don’t read that. . . .

With everyone? Corey has one, Hope has one.

Corey has one, Hope has one. Did you sign one?

Stephen has one.

DTJ.: I don’t have one. I’m in the middle of the book. [Laughter]

I know, I forgot, he’s the one I’m most worried about.

DTJ: I’m not getting next week’s paycheck until I sign one.

I have a very, very, very prominent businessman who’s right now got a person — he’s involved in litigation, terrible litigation with somebody that worked for him in a very close level. And I said why are you . . .  .

Do you think these are airtight agreements?

Yeah, totally. I think they’re very airtight. They’re very . . .  .

And that no one could write a book or . . .  .

I think they’re extremely airtight. And anybody that violated it —  let’s put it this way: it’s so airtight that I’ve never had . . . you know, I’ve never had a problem with this sort of thing.

Let us ask this . . .  .

By the way, this man called me, he said, how is it that you don’t have — as famous as you are? And I sent him a copy of the agreement. He said, this is genius. And he now has people that go to work for him. I don’t like people that take your money and then say bad things about you. Okay? You know, they take your . . .  .

It’s different, I agree. It’s different.

And I tell you this, I will have to think about it. I will have to think about it. That’s a different thing, that I’m running a private company and I’m paying people lots of money, and then they go out and...

The taxpayers are paying the other people in the federal government.

Sure. Sure. They don’t do a great job, and then you fire them and they end up writing a book about you. So it’s different. But I will say that in the federal government it’s a different thing. So it’s something I would think about. But you know, I do right now — I have thousands and thousands of employees, many thousands, and every one of them has an agreement, has a . . .  I call it a confidentiality . . .  .

Say you’re elected president. Would one four-year term be enough?

I would say the following: I have seen people make the statement for Senate and for other positions, government — because I’ve been a very political person over the years, I’ve gotten as many zone changes as any human being on earth, probably, including the entire West Side of Manhattan from 77nd Street to 59th Street. A very successful job. I would say that every time I see somebody make that statement and then they’re feeling good and doing a great job, and they run, they lose because of that statement. So I would never want to say that four years . . .  I would never want to limit myself to four years. I think I can do a tremendous job in four years. One of your questions, I noticed, is what would be your first 90 days in terms — and we’ll talk about that next.

Good.

But, so I think I can do a terrific job. And I think this: if I’m doing a terrific job, and if I’m feeling well, I would say I would continue to go for the extra four years. Because again, I don’t want to put that burden on myself. If I’m doing a good job, I should be allowed. And I only say that because you know, Bob, I’ve seen so many people say it. Even for local positions. And if they decide to then go, they always lose because they make that statement. So I don’t want to say that. But I think I will be able to do a fantastic job in four years.

Real quickly, at the Post editorial board interview, you referred to the $19 trillion in debt, and then you said the U.S. is “probably sitting on a bubble.”

Yeah, a bubble.

What bubble?

Well, I think we’re sitting on an economic bubble. A financial bubble. I think if you look at the stock market...

In the stock market you mean?

Yeah.

Or do you mean . . .  .

Well first of all, we’re not at five percent unemployment. We’re at a number that’s probably into the twenties if you look at the real number. That was a number that was devised, statistically devised to make politicians — and in particular presidents — look good. And I wouldn’t be getting the kind of massive crowds that I’m getting if the number was a real number. People are extremely unhappy in this country.

And so is the bubble — it’s not a housing bubble.

No, no, I’m talking about . . . .

Or a real estate building bubble.

I’m talking about a bubble where you go into a very massive recession. Hopefully not worse than that, but a very massive recession. Look, we have money that’s so cheap right now. And if I want to borrow money, I can borrow all the money I want. But I’m rich. If a person that wants to put a lot of people to.  . . .   And I don’t need the money. I don’t have to borrow. I don’t even call banks anymore. I use my own money to do things. If I want to borrow money or if another rich person wants to borrow money, you can borrow money at, like, LIBOR plus nothing. And you’re paying one and a half percent interest, it’s crazy, and they’ll give you all you want. If somebody is a great, wonderful person, going to employ lots of people, a really talented businessperson, wants to borrow money but they’re not rich? They have no chance.

Bubbles are scary to economists.

Oh, bubbles are scary.

Alan Greenspan, the former chairman of the Fed, used to say, there may be a bubble out there but you don’t know it’s a bubble until it bursts. Is that true?

Yeah. That’s true. I think that’s true. I think you had a lot of signs, because you had all those exploding mortgages. I told . . .  .

And you say there are signs now.

. . . people.

We’re “sitting on a bubble.”

Okay, so I made many speeches for different groups on success, where people would pay me a lot of money, I gave it to charity. People would pay me money for speeches on success. So I would do that, before this. And I would tell people, don’t invest that, don’t go – I was pretty good at prognostication, at telling people what to do in terms of. . . . Now, I’d talk about success, but I’d say, this is a bad time to invest. I also said, this is a good time to invest.

What is it now? Is it a good time to invest now?

Oh, I think it’s a terrible time right now.

You really do?

Yeah.

Because the dollar is so strong. Our country is in – you know, it’s very interesting. There’s a couple of things good about strong dollars, but there’s some...

So your tip, stock tip, is to get out of the market? Or avoid it now?

Oh, my stock tip is that the market – I believe we’re sitting on a big bubble. So you take a look at what’s going on. You have — think of it — you have cheap money that nobody can get unless you’re rich. You have the regulators are running the banks. Not the guys that are being paid $50 million a year to run the banks. I mean, when you look at many of your friends that are running banks that are being paid $40 and $50 million, yeah, they’re not running the banks. The regulators are running the banks. You have a situation where you have an inflated stock market. It started to deflate, but then it went back up again. Usually that’s a bad sign. That’s a sign of things to come. And yeah, I think we’re sitting on a very, very big bubble.

So the Wall Street people are going to — when we publish this — are not going to like to hear the possible president say . . . .

Yeah, I don’t care about the. . . .  I know the Wall Street people. I know the Wall Street people probably better than anybody knows them. You know, the Wall Street . . .  .

You don’t need them either?

No. No. You know, I don’t need them. No, other candidates need them, by the way. Ted Cruz needs them. Ted Cruz borrowed millions of dollars for his [political-action committees].

But doesn’t this go back to the coalition? I’m sorry.

And by the way, and didn’t disclose on his personal financials that he was borrowing money from Goldman Sachs and Citibank and didn’t — and paying almost no interest. He had an interest rate that you would’ve been proud to have, and he didn’t disclose it. Which nobody made a big deal out of. You did a little bit. But no I do, I think we’re sitting — it’s precarious times. Part of the reason it’s precarious is because we are being ripped so badly by other countries. We are being ripped so badly by China. It just never ends. Nobody’s ever going to stop it. And the reason they’re not going to stop it is one of two. They’re either living in a world of the make believe, or they’re totally controlled by their lobbyists and their special interests. Meaning people that want it to continue. Because what China, what Mexico, what Japan — I don’t want to name too many countries, because I actually do business in a lot of these countries – but what these countries are doing to us is unbelievable. They are draining our jobs. They are draining our money. They are taking the money out . . . .

So you are really pessimistic, to say the least?

I’m pessimistic. Unless changes are made. Changes could be made.

Could you fix it? Next year, if you became president?

Yes, I can fix it. I can fix it pretty quickly.

Okay. Tell us that.

When I was at your editorial board meeting, I talked about NATO. And I’m not a world expert on NATO. But I have a natural instinct for certain things, okay? Like I said, keep the oil. Well, now ISIS has the oil. I said a lot of things. I said in my book about — written in 2000 — mentioned Bin Laden in a paragraph or two. And that was two years before the World Trade Center came down. And I’m not a politician, I was . . .  .

Okay, well, I say this. Look: We are making, and we have, some of the worst trade deals in the history of trade. We’re now making one, Trans-Pacific Partnership. TPP. A disaster, that deal is a disaster.

You know lots of experts, supposedly, disagree with you on the trade issues and so forth. Feel . . .  .

Yeah. Oh, I was against NAFTA.

And there’s a lot of analysis, and a lot of data.

I was against NAFTA. NAFTA’s been a disaster. I mean, frankly, I’m a big Ronald Reagan fan, but I disagreed with him on trade. I thought his trade policies were terrible.

So the first 100 days, what would you do?

Okay. I would do a number of things. I would, number one, I would start negotiating great trade deals using — I know the best people. You know. . . .

You think that can turn around in 100 days?

No, no, it can’t, no, but I would start the negotiation. No, these are complicated transactions. Part of the problem with the TPP is it’s 12 countries. Okay? And you should do individual country deals. It’s 7,000 pages long. And each one of those countries has studied this thing, photographic. We have congressmen, they don’t even read these agreements.

Yeah. It’s a bad deal. It’s a bad deal for our country.

Well, I know, but it’s a bad deal for our country. What I would do – and before I talk about legislation, because I think frankly this is more important – number one, it’s going to be a very big tax cut. Because the middle class has been. . . . And Larry Kudlow and numerous people have liked very much. . . . You know, I put in a plan for tax cuts, and I’ve gotten some very good reviews. I would do a tax cut. You have to do a tax cut. Because we’re the highest-taxed nation in the world. But I would start — because I noticed your question briefly — boom, what would you do in the first 90 days? I would immediately start renegotiating our trade deals with Mexico, China, Japan and all of these countries that are just absolutely destroying us. And they have been for years. It’s an incredible tribute to our country that we can lose billions — hundreds of billions — of dollars consistently, year in and year out — and still even survive. We have rebuilt China. We have rebuilt it. I mean, you look at what’s going on in China. We have rebuilt China single-handedly. Now, they’ve done okay with Europe too, but . . .  .

Renegotiate trade deals and renegotiate military deals.

And by the way, and renegotiate with NATO. And renegotiate with Japan and with...

And I’m negotiating over 100 deals. We’re negotiating 114 deals.

No.

No. Well, you know, it depends on what your definition of “sue” is. We will be able to make great trade deals. It’ll be good for the counties, it will be good for us.

How long will it take? A year? Two years?

It will go. . . . Yeah, I would say within the first year a lot of it will be done.

Sir, in listening to this . . .

But you have to be able to walk. You have to be able to . . .  .

 . . . and covering lots of presidents, if I may go back to that experience.

Go ahead.

Trying to understand them. Reagan was Morning in America. And it’s almost like you’re saying, at least for a while, morning in the ditch. That we are just not going to be able to get out because of these trade deals, because of your pessimism about the economy.

Look, we are losing $500 billion a year on trade deficits with China. Okay? We’ve been for a long time, from 200 to 500. We are losing hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars a year on trade. You look at Japan. They send their cars in here by the hundreds of thousands. You go to Los Angeles, you look at those docks, and these cars get driven off those boats at 40 miles an hour. You’ve never seen anything like it. They just come pouring into our country. And yet when — you talk about an imbalance, when it comes to us selling to Japan? They take very little.

Where’s the optimism to get out of this?

Oh, I have great optimism.

You do?

Oh. Oh, okay. With all of that, I’m an optimistic person. You know, “Make America great again.” . . .

Oh yeah. What’s the . . .  .

Make America great again. That’s actually a very optimistic — you know, that’s not — some people say, oh, that’s so —because they hate the word “again.” I said, "No, no, you don’t understand. We’re going to make America great again." People view that as very positive. Do you know, workers. . . . . You can have that [unclear] question. I dictated this out pretty much.

But you know what, we can delay that meeting for 20 minutes. I love this.

Could you call them up and say could we delay half an hour?

[unclear] Call them back, tell them we’ll be 45 minutes late, is it okay? Only if it’s okay. If he can’t do it...

Okay. Because I’d like to finish with these guys.

Thank you. We appreciate it.

So just so you understand, mine is a message of great optimism. We can fix it.

No, no. Not everybody thinks that. Some people don’t understand that.

Meaning you. I asked her about you. What do you think of Trump?

Was she here...

Yeah. I’ll give her great dignity. Let me hear the question – you may not know the answer.

Was she here legally or illegally?

I asked her, and she would not say.

That means she was here illegally. Okay. So here . . .  .

Possibly. And she says . . .  Trump, I asked her, I said, what do you think of Mr. Trump? And she said, “He doesn’t like me.” She took it personally. And then she said, “I just want my dignity.”

I understand that.

What would you say to her?

I’ll tell you what I’d say to her. Number one, she was probably here illegally. The polls are all showing people — Hispanics — that are here legally like me very much. In Nevada, you saw the poll, I’m leading with the Hispanics. People that vote, people that therefore are here. I’m leading with Hispanics. People that are here illegally maybe feel differently and they do feel differently, but people that are here legally, Hispanics that are here, they don’t want their jobs taken. And they know I’ll bring jobs back from China. I’ll bring jobs back from Japan and from Mexico and from all these countries. You look at what Mexico’s doing, Bob. Mexico is the new China, smaller level. Mexico, what they’re doing to us on trade and at the border is unbelievable. Okay? And I was right. When I got up and made that initial speech in Trump Tower on June 16, and I talked about illegal immigration and the problems, that hit a nerve. You know? Because . . .  .

I am a person that’s going to bring this country together. I’m a person that’s going to unify the country. President Obama is a divider. He is not a unifier. When he first got elected, I didn’t have great feelings for the fact that he was going to do well. But the one thing I thought, he would be able to unify the country. African American, white, I thought that he would be a unifying factor. He has not been. He’s been a great . . .  .

But Bob Costa’s right, Mr. Trump, that you talk to people and they feel you’re not a unifier.

I know. They feel that now.

And you say you are. The question becomes . . . I mean, this is one maid, but I think there are a countless number of people out there who, in essence maybe they could not put it in this articulate way, they want their dignity, and the question is, how are they going to get it from you if you’re president?

Well again, so I asked you the very important question, was she here legally or illegally?

I don’t know.

Because if she was here legally, I think you would find that she would like me very much. In Nevada, where you have a huge Hispanic population, when they did the exit polls, I won with the people that are Hispanic in the state of Nevada. But not by a little bit, by a lot. I think that’s a — it’s an important question to ask. I will give people back their dignity because I’m going to bring jobs back. Our jobs are being taken away from us like candy from a baby. Our jobs are being ripped out of our country. Carrier announced — I talked about it the last month, because I thought that was in particular bad. Maybe because I buy a lot of Carrier air conditioners. But . . .  .

That’s right. Totally. I do. I mean, totally. I mean, ultimately we’re all immigrants, okay? I have total empathy. At the same time, we need borders, otherwise we don’t have a country, and we have to be – you have to come into the country legally. And that’s been a big theme of my campaign, and for the most part, I think it’s [unclear].

But this maid doesn’t have a lawyer, I suspect. And she came to the country, we don’t know. And she didn’t do anything that put her in the position she may be in, you’re right. And what she’s saying is — and I was floored by what she said, quite frankly. “I just want my dignity.”

Yeah. Well.

And a giant question, pulsing out there, is how do people get their dignity that you seem to be quite critical of? Illegal immigrants . . .  .

No. I’m . . .  .

Well, you are critical.

Well, illegal immigrants, yeah. Just so you understand, I want people to come into this country. I want to make it much easier to come into the country. But they have to come in through a legal process. Were you able to do that, Corey? Huh?

We have a meeting with — sort of an important meeting.

Yeah, the foreign policy people.

Well actually we already met with them. We just . . .  .

Oh you did? How’d that go?

It went great.

[Lewandowski speaks inaudibly.]

I’d love to keep it going. I actually enjoy this. I’ll probably end up ruing the day. I’ll say, how could they have said that stuff about me? But I do really enjoy this . . .  .

I understand that. And you know, these are such serious questions, and you are answering them with — you’re being straight about it. I appreciate that.

Here’s what — I think I’ll do really great. With the African Americans. And a lot of people think that. And you know that a lot of people think that. But I think I’m going to do great with the African Americans. I think I’m going to do great with Hispanics. I’m going to bring jobs back to the country. I’m not going to let people take our jobs. I’m not going to let people go — I’m not going to let factories and Nabisco and all of these companies — Ford — we’re going to build here. We’re going to keep the jobs in our country. And we’re going to bring jobs back to our country, Bob. And that’s going to  . . .  .

Understand. Let me ask, this is a really . . .  .

Jobs is a very big answer, because that’s going to give . . .  .

Of course. Although this maid has a job.

That’s right. But dignity. And maybe she’ll have a better job. She’ll have more options.

Okay. What would be the most challenging situation that, say you’re president, or the next president, might face? And this is a serious issue. I asked President Obama this a number of years ago. And he said, what I worry about most — sitting in the Oval Office, and I think he really meant this — I worry the most about a nuclear weapon going off in an American city.

Okay.

That is the game-changer.

It’s funny, it’s very interesting. I’m surprised he said that, because I heard him recently say that the biggest problem we have is global warming, which I totally disagree with. Okay?

But he told me . . .  .

Okay.

Sat there. And I thought, you can read between – do you agree with that?

It’s very interesting. I have . . .  I absolutely agree. I think the single greatest problem that the world has — we have an ISIS problem, and we have — but the single greatest problem that this world has is a nuclear, the power of nuclear. The tremendous power. You look at Hiroshima and multiply it times a thousand.

And he’s, President Obama’s having this summit now, right here in Washington, down the street. And he is a strong advocate for eliminating nuclear weapons entirely.

Okay.

Would you agree with that?

Well, if it’s done on equal basis, absolutely.

You would.

But the problem you have now. . . . Done on an equal basis. The problem you have now is you have Pakistan. And you just see what happened in Pakistan. It’s not like, you know, that’s a perfect situation. You have India. You have so many countries now with nuclear already. You have some very bad people trying very hard to get nuclear. So I think that’s something that in an ideal world is wonderful, but I think it’s not going to happen very easily.

Would you pick up the baton on that effort on his part?

I would love to see a nuclear-free world. Will that happen? Chances are extremely small that will happen. Look, Russia right now is spending a tremendous amount of money on re-doing their entire nuclear arsenal.

By the way, I love that. But from a practical standpoint, not going to happen.

In the Atlantic, okay.

Well, I think there’s a certain truth to that. I think there’s a certain truth to that. Real power is through respect. Real power is, I don’t even want to use the word, fear. But you know, our military is very sadly depleted. You look at what’s going on with respect to our military and it’s depleted from all of the cuts. Hey, as a real estate person, all the time I’m getting listings of bases, Army bases, Marine bases, naval bases. I keep saying, how many bases do they have? I’m constantly getting, it’s crossing my desk, do we want to buy a base in Virginia? Do we want to buy. . . . And I see it all the time. We have to strengthen our military. It’s so vital to do that. We have to strengthen our military. By the way, we have to take care of our vets. So vital. But we have to strengthen our military. Now, one of the things that The Washington Post treated me very badly on, when I talked to you about NATO, we’re spending too much money, and we’re not getting treated with respect from the 28 countries that we’re dealing with.

No.

I didn’t say I’d get out of NATO. I say it’s got to be.  . . . First of all, it’s obsolete. Our big threat today is terrorism. Okay? And NATO’s not really set up for terrorism. NATO is set up for the Soviet Union more than anything else. And now you don’t have the Soviet Union.

No, because we seem to get ripped off by everybody. We seem to always be the one that pays the bill and gets the least. And we’re going to stop doing that.

But you’re talking about reform of NATO, aren’t you, rather than  . . .   .

Yes, I’m talking about reform.

You’re not just saying, let’s move out.

I’m talking totally about reform. But you have to be —  in order to get reform, you have to be prepared to walk. Otherwise you can’t get reform. For instance, the Iran deal. Had John Kerry stood up from his chair when they kept saying no, no, no, no — he didn’t get anything. Had he stood up twice — once or twice — from his chair and said, sorry gentlemen, we’re leaving, and increased the sanctions, you would’ve had a whole different Iran deal.

Okay. One really important question.

Go ahead.

A couple of years ago, I had a breakfast with one of the leaders, heads of state, of our best allies. And I asked him about Obama. And he was talking off the record, and he said, “I like him. He is smart. But no one in the world is afraid of him.” Do you agree with that? And in a Trump administration — are you formulating a new doctrine of you better be afraid of me?

Yeah, I don’t want people to be afraid. I want them to respect our country. Right now, they don’t respect our country.

But do they respect you if you kind of . . .  .

People have respected me. My life has been a life where I’ve been respected. I want them to respect our country. I want them to respect our leader. But I want them to respect our country. Now, you could use . . .  .

How do you achieve that, sir?

Through the aura of personality. Through having the goods. You know, so Muhammad Ali is a friend of mine. He’s a good guy. I’ve watched many people over the years. Muhammad Ali would get in the ring and he’d talk and talk and scream and talk about the ugly bear, and this, that — you know. And then he’d win. And respect is about winning. We don’t win anymore. I see it in my — we don’t win anymore. And he’d win. I’ve seen many fighters that were better than Muhammad Ali, in terms of talking. I’ve seen guys that were so beautiful, so flamboyant, they’d get into the ring — and then they’d get knocked out. And guess what? It’s all gone. Let me just say: we don’t win anymore.

So do you want Putin to be afraid of you?

I want Putin to respect our country, okay?

And what would he respect?

Well, first of all, it’s sort of interesting. He said very good things about me.

Understand.

You saw that. He said, Trump is brilliant and Trump is going to be the new leader and all that. And some of these clowns said, you should repudiate Putin. I said, why would I repudiate him? He’s not going to get anything. Because I’ve been through this stuff before. But he said very positive things about me. And I say to myself — and I say to people — wouldn’t it be nice if we actually could get along with Russia? And if we could get along with these people? China takes advantage of us. Look at what they’re doing in the South China Sea. They’re not supposed to be playing that game. Okay? Look at what they’re doing. That is a lack of respect. When they’re building a massive, like nobody’s ever seen before — they’re building islands in the middle of the South China Sea for a massive military complex. Beyond runways. I mean, this is a complex. So what I’m saying is there’s a tremendous lack of respect for our country. And I think for our leader.

But what does Putin respect? The former KGB lieutenant colonel? Force. Power.

I think he respects strength. Okay? I think Putin respects strength. And I’ve said it before, I think I will get along well with Putin. Now you never know. I don’t say that – only a fool would say, “I will,” but I feel that I will get along well with Putin. I feel that if we can get along with more countries, that’s a positive thing. That’s not a bad thing. Some people — for instance, when Putin came out and he wanted to bomb the hell out of ISIS, we had people standing on the stage, we don’t want that, we want. . . . Let me tell you something. If we have somebody else dropping bombs that cost a half a million dollars a piece on the top — if we have somebody helping us, that’s not so bad. You understand that. That’s not so bad. But I had people that I’m running against saying, like, that was a terrible thing. It’s not a terrible thing. We have a situation in Libya where a friend of mine is just saying, so, we had Gaddafi, he killed the terrorists, he ran his place. Not a good man. Same thing you could say with Iraq, with Saddam Hussein. Saddam Hussein was a plus-10 at killing terrorists, that’s one thing. If our presidents would have gone away and gone to the beach, the Middle East would be a far better place than it is right now. I don’t say it would be run by nice people, but you know, it would be a far better place. The mistakes we’ve made in the Middle East are so astronomical. Now here’s the thing: ISIS is now. . . . A friend of mine who’s very much involved in the energy business, ISIS is controlling the oil now in Libya. How did we let that happen?

And by the way, that oil? That is a great oil, and it’s a lot of oil. And they’re controlling it.

Right.

Yeah, but see, that’s not the getting. The getting, for me, is to make our country great again. The getting — that’s just a part of it. The getting the position is not the real getting. For me, the getting is — and that’s when I’ll say, congratulations everyone, my job is finished. We will make our country financially strong again. When you have 19 . . . I had a woman come up to me. A wonderful woman. I said this one or two times in the speech. She said, "Mr. Trump, I love you. You’re so incredible. I’m voting for you 100 percent, but could you stop saying you’re going to make our country rich again?" I said, "I understand what you’re saying – it doesn’t sound nice. But without being rich again, we can’t be great again." I am going to make our country rich again. We are, the thing I didn’t like about The Washington Post, they didn’t put down my real statements as to Japan and everything else. They make it sound like I want Japan to have nuclear weapons. I don’t. And by the way, other people have said this too. I don’t mind taking care of Japan. But they have to help us out more, monetarily. We can’t protect the entire world. You look at our military budget, it’s massive compared to any other country. But what are we doing? We’re taking care of the military needs of all these countries. And these countries are much richer than us. We’re not a rich country. We’re a debtor nation. We’ve got to get rid of — I talked about bubble. We’ve got to get rid of the $19 trillion in debt.

How long would that take?

I think I could do it fairly quickly, because of the fact the numbers . . .  .

What’s fairly quickly?

Well, I would say over a period of eight years. And I’ll tell you why.

Would you ever be open to tax increases as part of that, to solve the problem?

I don’t think I’ll need to. The power is trade. Our deals are so bad.

That would be $2 trillion a year.

No, but I’m renegotiating all of our deals, Bob. The big trade deals that we’re doing so badly on. With China, $505 billion this year in trade. We’re losing with everybody. And a lot of those deals — a lot of people say, how could the politicians be so stupid? It’s not that they’re stupid. It’s that they’re controlled by lobbyists and special interests who want those deals to be made.

So we want to go back and tell our readers about this interview, and we’ll run the transcript of it, I’m sure. When does the coalition building begin?

You’re talking now again?

For Trump.

CLi:  [Unclear], do you want me to cancel the other meeting? Because he has a hard out, and we’re already late.

Let me give you this final answer, and then if you want we can meet again.

Yes. Okay, that’s great. Is that . . . .

. . . Phase two. We’ll call it – at least treat me fairly in phase one, but phase two.

Of course.

The coalition building begins — I believe — when it’s decided who wins. Hopefully I’m going to win. The coalition building for me will be when I win. Vince Lombardi, I saw this. He was not a big man. And I was sitting in a place with some very, very tough football players. Big, strong football players. He came in — these are tough cookies — he came in, years ago — and I’ll never forget it, I was a young man. He came in, screaming, into this place. And screaming at one of these guys who was three times bigger than him, literally. And very physical, grabbing him by the shirt. Now, this guy could’ve whisked him away and thrown him out the window in two seconds. This guy — the player — was shaking. A friend of mine. There were four players, and Vince Lombardi walked in. He was angry. And he grabbed — I was a young guy — he grabbed him by the shirt, screaming at him, and the guy was literally. . . . And I said, wow. And I realized the only way Vince Lombardi got away with that was because he won. This was after he had won so much, okay? And when you have these coaches that are just as tough as him but they don’t win, there’s revolutions. Okay? Nobody. . . . But Vince Lombardi was able to win, and he got — I have never seen anything like it. It was such a vivid impression. You had this big powerful guy, and you had Vince Lombardi, and he grabbed him by the shirt and he was screaming at him, he was angry at him.

But to do that — a colleague of ours . . .  .

No, to do that you have to win.

Yes. But David Maraniss, a colleague of ours, wrote the book on Vince Lombardi.

Yeah.

"When Pride Still Mattered." Right? What Vince Lombardi did, he got to the point of winning by building a coalition of 11 players on the field. He couldn’t have a guard and a tackle who were not part of the team.

Okay, let me answer this way, because I think it will be a very positive ending. Because I agree with you. Ultimately, I will build a coalition. I think it’s too soon. I really do. I think it’s too soon. Now, I may be wrong. But this isn’t something I needed to do. This is something I want to do. I want to give back, and I’ll do a fantastic job. And I know politicians. I know them all. They’re only talented at one thing: getting elected. Now, you have some that have certain assets, but they’re talented at one thing: getting elected. Raising funds, and getting elected. Okay? And when I first ran, Charles Krauthammer said, and this was before I had run, and he was sitting there — I told you this story. He was sitting on Fox. And he said, this is one of the most talented fields of senators and governors and people running for office in the history of our country, and certainly since World War II. Now this is about two months before I’m announcing. And I’m saying to myself, wow. That’s tough. You know, here’s a guy who must know. It’s tough. They also said I wouldn’t run and I ran. But I said, wow, that’s a big statement. I said, all right, but I’m doing it. Then I decide — top of the escalator — I said to my wife, come on, let’s go. Deep breath, went down, did it. Okay. Now I’ve defeated those people, most of them. I’ve defeated them. And I say, really? Meaning to his statement. Really? Not a lot of talent.

So we have on the media, which you are quite critical . . .  .

Media treats me very unfairly, and very inaccurately.

Okay, and the question is, why? And if I may, Richard Nixon, something he said . . . about the media, what it does, the media looks in the mirror instead of looking out the window — and gather facts and listen to other people — they’re more interested in themselves. Is that part of the problem?

Well, I think they’re more interested in hits. I did a thing the other day with — on CNN — with Anderson Cooper. I don’t know if you saw the rating. Give him the ratings, if you have it. Do you have the ratings?

They were through — I just got this. They were through the roof. Here. Mine was through the roof, meaning my hour was through the roof. Now, that’s good and bad. The bad is they want to cover me too much, and they write things that maybe they shouldn’t be writing. But those were phenomenal. Won the evening, beat everybody, et cetera, et cetera. My segment, not the other segments. The other segments did all right, but my segment was one of the highest-rated shows in a long time and beat everybody on cable — beat everybody on television that night. So you’ll take a look. That’s good and it’s bad. The bad is they want to do nothing but cover me. They write stories that are — that don’t even make sense. I’m just saying, I wish I could be covered accurately and fairly by the media.

By why, then? Is this ideology, is this partisanship, is it laziness? What is it?

Well, it could be some laziness. Today they want the clicks. In the old days they wanted the ratings, or they wanted to sell newspapers. Today they see if somebody clicks. So they do a story on me and they get clicks all over the place. They do a story on somebody else, it doesn’t matter. All I can say is this. I wish I could be treated fairly by the media. And if I was treated fairly by the media, I think you would see a very big difference in coalition and coalition building and a lot of things. But with that being said, I’m not ready to do coalition building. But when I do — I tell that Vince Lombardi story — if and when I win, it will be really easy to build up a coalition. One other thing. I told you this. We are getting calls from so many people that you speak to, you speak to, that are saying, oh we don’t like Trump, we’ve got to stop Trump. They’re calling me. They’re talking to you and they’re calling me. Because they think I’m going to win.

Yeah, but we’re already — look, we already have. . . .  Chris came in, and Carson came in. We already have a lot of people. We are getting calls from people that you’re writing about, or other people are writing about, and I’m telling you, names that you wouldn’t believe. Bob, you — the greatest skeptic probably of all time — even more than you. That’s only because he’s older than you. He’s seen more. People that you wouldn’t even think about would be calling are calling. They want to make a deal. They want to come on board.

I can only say this: my whole life has been about winning. My whole life. I’ve won a lot. And one little example? This building. This was one of the most sought-after buildings in the history of the General Services Administration. Owned by them for many years. The landlord to the United States, right? Every major company — almost everybody — I don’t have to —obviously, look, the best location in Washington. Right between the Capitol and the White House.

Great building.

The best location, best building. The walls are four foot thick of solid granite. Amazing how they were able to lift it up. I mean, frankly, amazing. This is before they had cranes as we know them today. Unbelievable place. And it will be one of the great hotels in the world. Everybody wanted it. Every hotel company. Everybody. Pritzker wanted it. Who’s closer to Obama than Pritzker? Hyatt wanted it. They had the Jewish Museum all lined up. They had everything all lined up. . . .  They own Hyatt. Hyatt didn’t get it. The reason I got it was because I have an unbelievable balance sheet - because they wanted to make sure it got done — and because of the fact that I had a great concept.

But let’s . . .  .

But think of it: I got it in the Obama administration.

Understand.

And people say to me, Bob, how the hell did you get the most sought — after real estate asset perhaps in the history of the GSA — and you understand what I mean by that.

Of course.

You know, they have land in the middle of nowhere, nobody cares about it. They say, how did you get the most sought-after asset perhaps in the history of the GSA?

Well don’t forget, they’ve been concerned about that 10 times during the course of this last . . .  .

Yeah, but here’s what’s going on, we think. And it has to do with psychology. And one of the things you learn, being a reporter, being a builder with your background, is that everyone is concerned about themselves. . . . These people feel disrespected. They feel that they’ve not been given their dignity.

They will be loved. At the right time, they will be loved.

And they want in.

Yeah, I know.

And what, to use your term, you’ve built a wall to a certain extent. You’ve said, I am the Lone Ranger. I am doing this on my own.

No, at the right time I want them in.

Okay, but . . .  .

I just think it’s early.

Okay, but suppose you needed to do that sooner.

I’d be capable of doing it. I just think it’s . . .  .

Will you call us the day it starts?

I will.

Because that’s . . .  .

And some of the people that are calling me — and maybe I should be calling them — but some of the people that are calling me and calling him, in all fairness, and calling others, too. One called you. But some of these people that are well-known, and people you’ve — that would be very interesting to you. These people want in. And I’m taking them in. They’re going to come in.

Maybe you have to reach out, then.

Yeah. Because to a certain extent, I should be calling them, they shouldn’t have to be calling me.

Yes, exactly.

You’re right.

Because it’s coalition building.

And I’m going to be doing that very soon.

Well, we had a good meeting this morning for foreign policy, you know, and we’ve had some pretty good meetings.

No, at the right time. You know, it’s an interesting statement that Bob . . .  .

No?

I should be calling them.

And I will be calling them. As soon as I feel that time is right.

Sure, sure. I’ve been a very political person all my life.

I’ve been on the other side, but still I’ve been very political . . .  .

Well, I’ve gotten unbelievable political things done: zoning. This building. Bob, how did I get this building?

Well first of all, I do call some people that have just lost. Meaning, you know, they supported Rubio, they supported this. And we’ve dealt with. . . . Honestly, a lot of people are calling me, but I should be calling them. And in a pretty near distance, right now, already, I’m going to start calling them. But I love the point you’re making. This is a point that you’re making, but it’s a point I agree with. I should be calling . . .  .

Yes. Because we have — it’s not making — Bob Costa and I are making it because we hear it from people.

Yeah. They don’t know how to get in.

There is the sound of silence. And yeah, exactly.

And then they get vicious. At the right point, I’m going to be calling them. One thing I’m going to do . . .  .

Who’s going to be the first call?

I will be call . . .  that’s a very good case, I better not tell you that. I’ll let you know when I make it. Okay?

Okay. And we have to have phase . . .  .

One quick thing I’m going to do, a lot of people are saying, oh, the judges. . . .  To me, the judges — because there’s going to be a lot of them in these next four years. We’ve got one already that was unexpected in Scalia. So the judges are going to be important. You’re going to have either super-liberal judges, or you’re going to have conservative judges. So important. They don’t know me well enough. Well, what kind of judges? I’m going to do something. It was my idea, and I think it was a good idea. And I spoke to Senator Sessions and I spoke to other people, and I’m getting names. The Federalist people. Some very good people. The Heritage Foundation. I’m getting names, and I’m going to submit a list of about 10 names, 10 or 12 names, as judges. I’m going to announce that these are the judges, in no particular order, that I’m going to put up. And I’m going to guarantee it. I’m going to tell people. Because people are worried that, oh, maybe he’ll put the wrong judge in. Like people — my sister is on the court of appeals. Very smart. She’s a very smart, very highly respected person. Very smart.

People keep trying to get her to talk, and she won’t.

You know what?

Does she have a nondisclosure agreement?

She’s fantastic. She’s the exact opposite of me. People say, is she really your sister? She’s a brilliant person. Highly respected. When the press calls, I say, listen, they want to do a great story. They actually had a nice story about her in The Washington Post recently. But she doesn’t want to talk to the press, because she feels as a judge she should not be speaking to the press. Something very nice about that. She’s right.

I disagree, but . . .  .

As a judge. No, but as a judge.

Oh, as a reporter. But there’s something nice about that. She feels . . .  .

But it’s not just the individual calls, it’s the message of inclusiveness, that it doesn’t come through.

Bob, I’ve been hit very hard.

It’s possible, but I don’t think so. I’ve been here before.

Don’t forget, I’ve been hit hard. I went in one of 17 and they hit me harder than anybody. And I hit back very hard. Harder than they hit me. Jeb: low energy. Little Marco. Names that were devastating. I think the low energy Jeb, all of a sudden you see him running down the street to try and show he’s got high energy. And it wasn’t him, and it became worse. I hit back very hard. I am telling you, almost all of these people that you would never think would ever – will want to come on board. But I’ve got to win first. That’s why I told you that Vince Lombardi story. Because I think it’s a great story. Anyway, I have to go. Let’s do it again.

Okay. When — should we do it tomorrow? [Laughter]

Just treat me fairly. Treat me fairly. . . .  Actually the truth is these were very interesting. Nobody has asked me these questions.

Okay, thank you very much. Hello Brad and Ryan and everybody. We appreciate the time and the call. So we’ve spent a lot of time on this, and if we could just go over some of the numbers, I think it’s pretty clear that we won. We won very substantially in Georgia. You even see it by rally size, frankly. We’d be getting 25-30,000 people a rally, and the competition would get less than 100 people. And it never made sense.
But we have a number of things. We have at least 2 or 3 — anywhere from 250 to 300,000 ballots were dropped mysteriously into the rolls. Much of that had to do with Fulton County, which hasn’t been checked. We think that if you check the signatures — a real check of the signatures going back in Fulton County — you’ll find at least a couple of hundred thousand of forged signatures of people who have been forged. And we are quite sure that’s going to happen.
Another tremendous number. We’re going to have an accurate number over the next two days with certified accountants. But an accurate number will be given, but it’s in the 50s of thousands — and that’s people that went to vote and they were told they can’t vote because they’ve already been voted for. And it’s a very sad thing. They walked out complaining. But the number’s large. We’ll have it for you. But it’s much more than the number of 11,779 that’s — the current margin is only 11,779. Brad, I think you agree with that, right? That’s something I think everyone — at least that’s a number that everyone agrees on.

But that’s the difference in the votes. But we’ve had hundreds of thousands of ballots that we’re able to actually — we’ll get you a pretty accurate number. You don’t need much of a number because the number that in theory I lost by, the margin would be 11,779. But you also have a substantial numbers of people, thousands and thousands, who went to the voting place on November 3, were told they couldn’t vote, were told they couldn’t vote because a ballot had been put on their name. And you know that’s very, very, very, very sad.
We had, I believe it’s about 4,502 voters who voted but who weren’t on the voter registration list, so it’s 4,502 who voted, but they weren’t on the voter registration roll, which they had to be. You had 18,325 vacant address voters. The address was vacant, and they’re not allowed to be counted. That’s 18,325.
Smaller number — you had 904 who only voted where they had just a P.O. — a post office box number — and they had a post office box number, and that’s not allowed. We had at least 18,000 — that’s on tape, we had them counted very painstakingly — 18,000 voters having to do with [name]. She’s a vote scammer, a professional vote scammer and hustler [name]. That was the tape that’s been shown all over the world that makes everybody look bad, you, me and everybody else.

Where they got — number one they said very clearly and it’s been reported that they said there was a major water main break. Everybody fled the area. And then they came back, [name] and her daughter and a few people. There were no Republican poll watchers. Actually, there were no Democrat poll watchers, I guess they were them. But there were no Democrats, either, and there was no law enforcement. Late in the morning, early in the morning, they went to the table with the black robe and the black shield, and they pulled out the votes. Those votes were put there a number of hours before — the table was put there — I think it was, Brad, you would know, it was probably eight hours or seven hours before, and then it was stuffed with votes.
They weren’t in an official voter box; they were in what looked to be suitcases or trunks, suitcases, but they weren’t in voter boxes. The minimum number it could be because we watched it, and they watched it certified in slow motion instant replay if you can believe it, but slow motion, and it was magnified many times over, and the minimum it was 18,000 ballots, all for Biden.
You had out-of-state voters. They voted in Georgia, but they were from out of state, of 4,925. You had absentee ballots sent to vacant, they were absentee ballots sent to vacant addresses. They had nothing on them about addresses, that’s 2,326.

And you had dropboxes, which is very bad. You had dropboxes that were picked up. We have photographs, and we have affidavits from many people. 
I don’t know if you saw the hearings, but you have dropboxes where the box was picked up but not delivered for three days. So all sorts of things could have happened to that box, including, you know, putting in the votes that you wanted. So there were many infractions, and the bottom line is, many, many times the 11,779 margin that they said we lost by — we had vast, I mean the state is in turmoil over this.
And I know you would like to get to the bottom of it, although I saw you on television today, and you said that you found nothing wrong. I mean, you know, and I didn’t lose the state, Brad. People have been saying that it was the highest vote ever. There was no way. A lot of the political people said that there’s no way they beat me. And they beat me. They beat me in the . . . As you know, every single state, we won every state. We won every statehouse in the country. We held the Senate, which is shocking to people, although we’ll see what happens tomorrow or in a few days. 

And we won the House, but we won every single statehouse, and we won Congress, which was supposed to lose 15 seats, and they gained, I think 16 or 17 or something. I think there’s a now difference of five. There was supposed to be a difference substantially more. But politicians in every state, but politicians in Georgia have given affidavits and are going to that, that there was no way that they beat me in the election, that the people came out, in fact, they were expecting to lose, and then they ended up winning by a lot because of the coattails. And they said there’s no way, that they’ve done many polls prior to the election, that there was no way that they won.
Ballots were dropped in massive numbers. And we’re trying to get to those numbers and we will have them.
They’ll take a period of time. Certified. But but they’re massive numbers. And far greater than the 11,779.
The other thing, dead people. So dead people voted, and I think the number is close to 5,000 people. And they went to obituaries. They went to all sorts of methods to come up with an accurate number, and a minimum is close to about 5,000 voters.
The bottom line is, when you add it all up and then you start adding, you know, 300,000 fake ballots. Then the other thing they said is in Fulton County and other areas. And this may or may not be true . . . this just came up this morning, that they are burning their ballots, that they are shredding, shredding ballots and removing equipment. They’re changing the equipment on the Dominion machines and, you know, that’s not legal.
And they supposedly shredded I think they said 300 pounds of, 3,000 pounds of ballots. And that just came to us as a report today. And it is a very sad situation.

But Brad, if you took the minimum numbers where many, many times above the 11,779, and many of those numbers are certified, or they will be certified, but they are certified. And those are numbers that are there, that exist. And that beat the margin of loss, they beat it, I mean, by a lot, and people should be happy to have an accurate count instead of an election where there’s turmoil.
I mean there’s turmoil in Georgia and other places. You’re not the only one, I mean, we have other states that I believe will be flipping to us very shortly. And this is something that — you know, as an example, I think it in Detroit, I think there’s a section, a good section of your state actually, which we’re not sure so we’re not going to report it yet. But in Detroit, we had, I think it was, 139 percent of the people voted. That’s not too good. 
In Pennsylvania, they had well over 200,000 more votes than they had people voting. And that doesn’t play too well, and the legislature there is, which is Republican, is extremely activist and angry. I mean, there were other things also that were almost as bad as that. But they had as an example, in Michigan, a tremendous number of dead people that voted. I think it was, I think, Mark, it was 18,000. Some unbelievably high number, much higher than yours, you were in the 4-5,000 category. 

And that was checked out laboriously by going through, by going through the obituary columns in the newspapers.
So I guess with all of it being said, Brad, the bottom line, and provisional ballots, again, you know, you’ll have to tell me about the provisional ballots, but we have a lot of people that were complaining that they weren’t able to vote because they were already voted for. These are great people. 
And, you know, they were shellshocked. I don’t know if you call that provisional ballots. In some states, we had a lot of provisional ballot situations where people were given a provisional ballot because when they walked in on November 3 and they were already voted for. 
So that’s it. I mean, we have many, many times the number of votes necessary to win the state. And we won the state, and we won it very substantially and easily, and we’re getting, we have, much of this is a very certified, far more certified than we need. But we’re getting additional numbers certified, too. And we’re getting pictures of dropboxes being delivered and delivered late. Delivered three days later, in some cases, plus we have many affidavits to that effect.
What I’m hopeful for is there some way that we can, we can find some kind of agreement to look at this a little bit more fully? You know the president mentioned Fulton County. 
But in some of these areas where there seems to be a difference of where the facts seem to lead, and so Mr. Secretary, I was hopeful that, you know, in the spirit of cooperation and compromise, is there something that we can at least have a discussion to look at some of these allegations to find a path forward that’s less litigious?
What we have done is we gave our state Senate about one and a half hours of our time going through the election issue by issue and then on the state House, the government affairs committee, we gave them about two and a half hours of our time, going back point by point on all the issues of contention. And then just a few days ago, we met with our U.S. congressmen, Republican congressmen, and we gave them about two hours of our time talking about this past election. Going back, primarily what you’ve talked about here focused in on primarily, I believe, is the absentee ballot process. I don’t believe that you’re really questioning the Dominion machines. Because we did a hand re-tally, a 100 percent re-tally of all the ballots, and compared them to what the machines said and came up with virtually the same result. Then we did the recount, and we got virtually the same result. So I guess we can probably take that off the table. 
I don’t think there’s an issue about that.
Well, Brad. Not that there’s not an issue, because we have a big issue with Dominion in other states and perhaps in yours. But we haven’t felt we needed to go there. And just to, you know, maybe put a little different spin on what Mark is saying, Mark Meadows, yeah we’d like to go further, but we don’t really need to. We have all the votes we need.
You know, we won the state. If you took, these are the most minimal numbers, the numbers that I gave you, those are numbers that are certified, your absentee ballots sent to vacant addresses, your out-of-state voters, 4,925. You know when you add them up, it’s many more times, it’s many times the 11,779 number. So we could go through, we have not gone through your Dominion. So we can’t give them blessing. I mean, in other states, we think we found tremendous corruption with Dominion machines, but we’ll have to see. 
But we only lost the state by that number, 11,000 votes, and 779. So with that being said, with just what we have, with just what we have, we’re giving you minimal, minimal numbers. We’re doing the most conservative numbers possible; we’re many times, many, many times above the margin. And so we don’t really have to, Mark, I don’t think we have to go through . . . 
Because what’s the difference between winning the election by two votes and winning it by half a million votes. I think I probably did win it by half a million. You know, one of the things that happened, Brad, is we have other people coming in now from Alabama and from South Carolina and from other states, and they’re saying it’s impossible for you to have lost Georgia. We won. You know in Alabama, we set a record, got the highest vote ever. In Georgia, we set a record with a massive amount of votes. And they say it’s not possible to have lost Georgia.
And I could tell you by our rallies. I could tell you by the rally I’m having on Monday night, the place, they already have lines of people standing out front waiting. It’s just not possible to have lost Georgia. It’s not possible. When I heard it was close, I said there’s no way. But they dropped a lot of votes in there late at night. You know that, Brad. And that’s what we are working on very, very stringently. But regardless of those votes, with all of it being said, we lost by essentially 11,000 votes, and we have many more votes already calculated and certified, too.
And so I just don’t know, you know, Mark, I don’t know what’s the purpose. I won’t give Dominion a pass because we found too many bad things. But we don’t need Dominion or anything else. We have won this election in Georgia based on all of this. And there’s nothing wrong with saying that, Brad. You know, I mean, having the correct — the people of Georgia are angry. And these numbers are going to be repeated on Monday night. Along with others that we’re going to have by that time, which are much more substantial even. And the people of Georgia are angry, the people of the country are angry. And there’s nothing wrong with saying that, you know, that you’ve recalculated. Because the 2,236 in absentee ballots. I mean, they’re all exact numbers that were done by accounting firms, law firms, etc. And even if you cut ’em in half, cut ’em in half and cut ’em in half again, it’s more votes than we need.
But they — I guess there was a person named Mr. Braynard who came to these meetings and presented data, and he said that there was dead people, I believe it was upward of 5,000. The actual number were two. Two. Two people that were dead that voted. So that’s wrong.
Well, Cleta, how do you respond to that? Maybe you tell me?
But we don’t have the records that you have. And one of the things that we have been suggesting formally and informally for weeks now is for you to make available to us the records that would be necessary — 
But, Cleta, even before you do that, and not even including that, that’s why I hardly even included that number, although in one state, we have a tremendous amount of dead people. So I don’t know — I’m sure we do in Georgia, too. I’m sure we do in Georgia, too.
But we’re so far ahead. We’re so far ahead of these numbers, even the phony ballots of [name] , known scammer. You know the Internet? You know what was trending on the Internet? “Where’s [name]?” Because they thought she’d be in jail. “Where’s [name]?” It’s crazy, it’s crazy. That was. The minimum number is 18,000 for [name] , but they think it’s probably about 56,000, but the minimum number is 18,000 on the [name] night where she ran back in there when everybody was gone and stuffed, she stuffed the ballot boxes. Let’s face it, Brad, I mean. They did it in slow motion replay magnified, right? She stuffed the ballot boxes. They were stuffed like nobody has ever seen them stuffed before.
So there’s a term for it when it’s a machine instead of a ballot box, but she stuffed the machine. She stuffed the ballot. Each ballot went three times, they were showing: Here’s ballot No 1. Here it is a second time, third time, next ballot.
I mean, look. Brad. We have a new tape that we’re going to release. It’s devastating. And by the way, that one event, that one event is much more than the 11,000 votes that we’re talking about. It’s, you know, that one event was a disaster. And it’s just, you know, but it was, it was something, it can’t be disputed. And again, we have a version that you haven’t seen, but it’s magnified. It’s magnified, and you can see everything. For some reason, they put it in three times, each ballot, and I don’t know why. I don’t know why three times. Why not five times, right? Go ahead.
But where were the poll watchers, Brad? There were no poll watchers there. There were no Democrats or Republicans. There was no security there.
It was late in the evening, late in the, early in the morning, and there was nobody else in the room. Where were the poll watchers, and why did they say a water main broke, which they did and which was reported in the newspapers? They said they left. They ran out because of a water main break, and there was no water main. There was nothing. There was no break. There was no water main break. But we’re, if you take out everything, where were the Republican poll watchers, even where were the Democrat pollwatchers, because there were none.
And then you say, well, they left their station, you know, if you look at the tape, and this was, this was reviewed by professional police and detectives and other people, when they left in a rush, everybody left in a rush because of the water main, but everybody left in a rush. These people left their station.
When they came back, they didn’t go to their station. They went to the apron, wrapped around the table, under which were thousands and thousands of ballots in a box that was not an official or a sealed box. And then they took those. They went back to a different station. So if they would have come back, they would have walked to their station, and they would have continued to work. But they couldn’t do even that because that’s illegal, because they had no Republican pollwatchers. And remember, her reputation is — she’s known all over the Internet, Brad. She’s known all over.
I’m telling you, “Where’s [name] ” was one of the hot items . . . [name] They knew her. “Where’s [name]?” So Brad, there can be no justification for that. And I, you know, I give everybody the benefit of the doubt. But that was — and Brad, why did they put the votes in three times? You know, they put ’em in three times.
Where was everybody else at that late time in the morning? Where was everybody? Where were the Republicans? Where were the security guards? Were the people that were there just a little while before when everyone ran out of the room. How come we had no security in the room. Why did they run to the bottom of the table? Why do they run there and just open the skirt and rip out the votes. I mean, Brad. And they were sitting there, I think for five hours or something like that, the votes.
I don’t care about the link. I don’t need it. Brad, I have a much better —
It was 18,000 ballots, but they used each one three times.
I do think we had ours magnified out.
Nobody can make a case for that, Brad. Nobody. I mean, look, you’d have to be a child to think anything other than that. Just a child.
Well, there’s no way they could — then they’re incompetent. They’re either dishonest or incompetent, okay?
There’s only two answers, dishonesty or incompetence. There’s just no way. Look. There’s no way. And on the other thing, I said too, there is no way. I mean, there’s no way that these things could have been, you know, you have all these different people that voted, but they don’t live in Georgia anymore. What was that number, Cleta? That was a pretty good number, too.
And then they came back in, and they voted.
I thought that was a large number, though. It was in the 20s.
How may people do that? They moved out, and then they said, “Ah, to hell with it, I’ll move back.” You know, it doesn’t sound like a very normal . . . you mean, they moved out, and what, they missed it so much that they wanted to move back in? It’s crazy. 
Well, I don’t know, all I know is that it is certified. And they moved out of Georgia, and they voted. It didn’t say they moved back in, Cleta, did it?
Cleta, a lot of it you don’t need to be shared. I mean, to be honest, they should share it. They should share it because you want to get to an honest election.
I won this election by hundreds of thousands of votes. There’s no way I lost Georgia. There’s no way. We won by hundreds of thousands of votes. I’m just going by small numbers, when you add them up, they’re many times the 11,000. But I won that state by hundreds of thousands of votes.
Do you think it’s possible that they shredded ballots in Fulton County? Because that’s what the rumor is. And also that Dominion took out machines. That Dominion is really moving fast to get rid of their, uh, machinery. 
Do you know anything about that? Because that’s illegal, right? 
But have they moved the inner parts of the machines and replaced them with other parts?
Are you sure, Ryan?
What about, what about the ballots. The shredding of the ballots. Have they been shredding ballots?
It doesn’t pass the smell test because we hear they’re shredding thousands and thousands of ballots, and now what they’re saying, “Oh, we’re just cleaning up the office.” You know.
Oh this isn’t social media. This is Trump media. It’s not social media. It’s really not; it’s not social media. I don’t care about social media. I couldn’t care less. Social media is Big Tech. Big Tech is on your side, you know. I don’t even know why you have a side because you should want to have an accurate election. And you’re a Republican. 
No, no you don’t. No, no you don’t. You don’t have. Not even close. You’re off by hundreds of thousands of votes. And just on the small numbers, you’re off on these numbers, and these numbers can’t be just — well, why wont? — Okay. So you sent us into Cobb County for signature verification, right? You sent us into Cobb County, which we didn’t want to go into. And you said it would be open to the public. So we had our experts there, they weren’t allowed into the room. But we didn’t want Cobb County. We wanted Fulton County. And you wouldn’t give it to us. Now, why aren’t we doing signature — and why can’t it be open to the public?
And why can’t we have professionals do it instead of rank amateurs who will never find anything and don’t want to find anything? They don’t want to find, you know they don’t want to find anything. Someday you’ll tell me the reason why, because I don’t understand your reasoning, but someday you’ll tell me the reason why. But why don’t you want to find?
Why don’t you want to find . . . What?
So why did you do Cobb County? We didn’t even request — we requested Fulton County, not Cobb County. Go ahead, please. Go ahead.
No, but I told you. We’re not, we’re not saying that.
Fulton County. Look. Stacey, in my opinion, Stacey is as dishonest as they come. She has outplayed you . . . at everything. She got you to sign a totally unconstitutional agreement, which is a disastrous agreement. You can’t check signatures. I can’t imagine you’re allowed to do harvesting, I guess, in that agreement. That agreement is a disaster for this country. But she got you somehow to sign that thing, and she has outsmarted you at every step.
And I hate to imagine what’s going to happen on Monday or Tuesday, but it’s very scary to people. You know, when the ballots flow in out of nowhere. It’s very scary to people. That consent decree is a disaster. It’s a disaster. A very good lawyer who examined it said they’ve never seen anything like it. 
It’s not a settlement agreement, it’s a consent decree. It even says consent decree on it, doesn’t it? It uses the term consent decree. It doesn’t say settlement agreement. It’s a consent decree. It’s a disaster.
What’s written on top of it?
But Ryan, it’s called a consent decree, is that right? On the paper. Is that right?
Okay, whatever, it’s a disaster. It’s a disaster. Look. Here’s the problem. We can go through signature verification, and we’ll find hundreds of thousands of signatures, if you let us do it. And the only way you can do it, as you know, is to go to the past. But you didn’t do that in Cobb County. You just looked at one page compared to another. The only way you can do a signature verification is go from the one that signed it on November whatever. Recently. And compare it to two years ago, four years ago, six years ago, you know, or even one. And you’ll find that you have many different signatures. But in Fulton, where they dumped ballots, you will find that you have many that aren’t even signed and you have many that are forgeries.
Okay, you know that. You know that. You have no doubt about that. And you will find you will be at 11,779 within minutes because Fulton County is totally corrupt, and so is she totally corrupt.
And they’re going around playing you and laughing at you behind your back, Brad, whether you know it or not, they’re laughing at you. And you’ve taken a state that’s a Republican state, and you’ve made it almost impossible for a Republican to win because of cheating, because they cheated like nobody’s ever cheated before. And I don’t care how long it takes me, you know, we’re going to have other states coming forward — pretty good.
But I won’t . . . this is never . . . this is . . . We have some incredible talent said they’ve never seen anything . . . Now the problem is they need more time for the big numbers. But they’re very substantial numbers. But I think you’re going to find that they — by the way, a little information — I think you’re going to find that they are shredding ballots because they have to get rid of the ballots because the ballots are unsigned. The ballots are corrupt, and they’re brand new, and they don’t have seals, and there’s a whole thing with the ballots. But the ballots are corrupt.
And you are going to find that they are — which is totally illegal — it is more illegal for you than it is for them because, you know, what they did and you’re not reporting it. That’s a criminal, that’s a criminal offense. And you can’t let that happen. That’s a big risk to you and to Ryan, your lawyer. And that’s a big risk. But they are shredding ballots, in my opinion, based on what I’ve heard. And they are removing machinery, and they’re moving it as fast as they can, both of which are criminal finds. And you can’t let it happen, and you are letting it happen. You know, I mean, I’m notifying you that you’re letting it happen. So look. All I want to do is this. I just want to find 11,780 votes, which is one more than we have because we won the state.
And flipping the state is a great testament to our country because, you know, this is — it’s a testament that they can admit to a mistake or whatever you want to call it. If it was a mistake, I don’t know. A lot of people think it wasn’t a mistake. It was much more criminal than that. But it’s a big problem in Georgia, and it’s not a problem that’s going away. I mean, you know, it’s not a problem that’s going away. 
Good. But if you find it, you’ve got to say it, Ryan.
Well, you better check on the ballots because they are shredding ballots, Ryan. I’m just telling you, Ryan. They’re shredding ballots. And you should look at that very carefully. Because that’s so illegal. You know, you may not even believe it because it’s so bad. But they’re shredding ballots because they think we’re going to eventually get there . . . because we’ll eventually get into Fulton. In my opinion, it’s never too late. . . . So, that’s the story. Look, we need only 11,000 votes. We have are far more than that as it stands now. We’ll have more and more. And . . . do you have provisional ballots at all, Brad? Provisional ballots? 
Sure, but I mean, are they counted, or did you just hold them back because they, you know, in other words, how many provisional ballots do you have in the state?
Because most of them are made out to the name Trump. Because these are people that were scammed when they came in. And we have thousands of people that have testified or that want to testify. When they came in, they were proudly going to vote on November 3. And they were told, “I’m sorry, you’ve already been voted for, you’ve already voted.” The women, men started screaming, “No. I proudly voted till November 3.” They said, “I’m sorry, but you’ve already been voted for, and you have a ballot.” And these people are beside themselves. So they went out, and they filled in a provisional ballot, putting the name Trump on it.
And what about that batch of military ballots that came in. And even though I won the military by a lot, it was 100 percent Trump. I mean 100 percent Biden. Do you know about that? A large group of ballots came in, I think it was to Fulton County, and they just happened to be 100 percent for Trump — for Biden — even though Trump won the military by a lot, you know, a tremendous amount. But these ballots were 100 percent for Biden. And do you know about that? A very substantial number came in, all for Biden. Does anybody know about it?
Okay, Cleta, I’m not asking you, Cleta, honestly. I’m asking Brad. Do you know about the military ballots that we have confirmed now. Do you know about the military ballots that came in that were 100 percent, I mean 100 percent, for Biden. Do you know about that?
No, but this was. That’s okay. But I got like 78 percent of the military. These ballots were all for . . . They didn’t tell me overseas. Could be overseas, too, but I get votes overseas, too, Ryan, in all fairness. No they came in, a large batch came in, and it was, quote, 100 percent for Biden. And that is criminal. You know, that’s criminal. Okay. That’s another criminal, that’s another of the many criminal events, many criminal events here.
I don’t know, look, Brad. I got to get . . . I have to find 12,000 votes, and I have them times a lot. And therefore, I won the state. That’s before we go to the next step, which is in the process of right now. You know, and I watched you this morning, and you said, well, there was no criminality. 
But I mean all of this stuff is very dangerous stuff. When you talk about no criminality, I think it’s very dangerous for you to say that.
I just, I just don’t know why you don’t want to have the votes counted as they are. Like even you when you went and did that check. And I was surprised because, you know . . . And we found a few thousand votes that were against me. I was actually surprised because the way that check was done, all you’re doing, you know, recertifying existing votes and, you know, and you were given votes and you just counted them up, and you still found 3,000 that were bad. So that was sort of surprising that it came down to three or five, I don’t know. Still a lot of votes. But you have to go back to check from past years with respect to signatures. And if you check with Fulton County, you’ll have hundreds of thousands because they dumped ballots into Fulton County and the other county next to it.
So what are we going to do here, folks? I only need 11,000 votes. Fellas, I need 11,000 votes. Give me a break. You know, we have that in spades already. Or we can keep it going, but that’s not fair to the voters of Georgia because they’re going to see what happened, and they’re going to see what happened. I mean, I’ll, I’ll take on anybody you want with regard to [name] and her lovely daughter, a very lovely young lady, I’m sure. But, but [name] . . . I will take on anybody you want. And the minimum, there were 18,000 ballots, but they used them three times. So that’s, you know, a lot of votes. And they were all to Biden, by the way, that’s the other thing we didn’t say. You know, [name] , the one thing I forgot to say, which was the most important. You know that every single ballot she did went to Biden. You know that, right? Do you know that, by the way, Brad?
Every single ballot that she did through the machines at early, early in the morning went to Biden. Did you know that, Ryan?
Huh. What is accurate?
No, about [name] . About early in the morning, Ryan. Where the woman took, you know, when the whole gang took the stuff from under the table, right? Do you know, do you know who those ballots, do you know who they were made out to, do you know who they were voting for?
Did you ever check?
No no no — did you ever check the ballots that were scanned by [name] , a known political operative, balloteer? Did ever check who those votes were for?
No, they were 100 percent for Biden. 100 percent. There wasn’t a Trump vote in the whole group. Why don’t you want to find this, Ryan? What’s wrong with you? I heard your lawyer is very difficult, actually, but I’m sure you’re a good lawyer. You have a nice last name.
But, but I’m just curious, why wouldn’t, why do you keep fighting this thing? It just doesn’t make sense. We’re way over the 17,779, right? We’re way over that number, and just if you took just [name] , we’re over that number by five, five or six times when you multiply that times three. 
And every single ballot went to Biden, and you didn’t know that, but now you know it. So tell me, Brad, what are we going to do? We won the election, and it’s not fair to take it away from us like this. And it’s going to be very costly in many ways. And I think you have to say that you’re going to reexamine it, and you can reexamine it, but reexamine it with people that want to find answers, not people that don’t want to find answers. For instance, I’m hearing Ryan that he’s probably, I’m sure a great lawyer and everything, but he’s making statements about those ballots that he doesn’t know. But he’s making them with such — he did make them with surety. But now I think he’s less sure because the answer is, they all went to Biden, and that alone wins us the election by a lot. You know, so. 
Why do you say that, though? I don’t know. I mean, sure, we can play this game with the courts, but why do you say that? First of all, they don’t even assign us a judge. They don’t even assign us a judge. But why wouldn’t you . . . Hey Brad, why wouldn’t you want to check out [name] ? And why wouldn’t you want to say, hey, if in fact, President Trump is right about that, then he wins the state of Georgia, just that one incident alone without going through hundreds of thousands of dropped ballots. You just say, you stick by, I mean I’ve been watching you, you know, you don’t care about anything. “Your numbers are right.” But your numbers aren’t right. They’re really wrong, and they’re really wrong, Brad. And I know this phone call is going nowhere other than, other than ultimately, you know — Look, ultimately, I win, okay? Because you guys are so wrong. And you treated this. You treated the population of Georgia so badly. You, between you and your governor, who is down at 21, he was down 21 points. And like a schmuck, I endorsed him, and he got elected, but I will tell you, he is a disaster.
The people are so angry in Georgia, I can’t imagine he’s ever getting elected again, I’ll tell you that much right now. But why wouldn’t you want to find the right answer, Brad, instead of keep saying that the numbers are right? ’Cause those numbers are so wrong?
And you can keep telling us and making public statement that you investigated this and nothing to see here. But we don’t know about that. All we know is what you tell us. What I don’t understand is why wouldn’t it be in everyone’s best interest to try to get to the bottom, compare the numbers, you know, if you say, because . . . to try to be able to get to the truth because we don’t have any way of confirming what you’re telling us. You tell us that you had an investigation at the State Farm Arena. I don’t have any report. I’ve never seen a report of investigation. I don’t know that is. I’ve been pretty involved in this, and I don’t know. And that’s just one of 25 categories. And it doesn’t even. And as I, as the president said, we haven’t even gotten into the Dominion issue. That’s not part of our case. It’s not part of, we just didn’t feel as though we had any to be able to develop —
No, we do have a way, but I don’t want to get into it. We found a way . . . excuse me, but we don’t need it because we’re only down 11,000 votes, so we don’t even need it. I personally think they’re corrupt as hell. But we don’t need that. All we have to do, Cleta, is find 11,000-plus votes. So we don’t need that. I’m not looking to shake up the whole world. We won Georgia easily. We won it by hundreds of thousands of votes. But if you go by basic, simple numbers, we won it easily, easily. So we’re not giving Dominion a pass on the record. We don’t need Dominion because we have so many other votes that we don’t need to prove it any more than we already have.
Certified accountants looked at them.
Well, let me ask you, Kurt, you think that is an accurate number. That was based on the information given to you by the secretary of state’s department, right?
Well, you have to. Well, under law, you’re not allowed to give faulty election results, okay? You’re not allowed to do that. And that’s what you done. This is a faulty election result. And honestly, this should go very fast. You should meet tomorrow because you have a big election coming up, and because of what you’ve done to the president — you know, the people of Georgia know that this was a scam — and because of what you’ve done to the president, a lot of people aren’t going out to vote. And a lot of Republicans are going to vote negative because they hate what you did to the president. Okay? They hate it. And they’re going to vote. And you would be respected. Really respected, if this thing could be straightened out before the election. You have a big election coming up on Tuesday. And I think that it is really is important that you meet tomorrow and work out on these numbers. Because I know, Brad, that if you think we’re right, I think you’re going to say, and I’m not looking to blame anybody, I’m just saying, you know, and, you know, under new counts, and under new views, of the election results, we won the election. You know? It’s very simple. We won the election. As the governors of major states and the surrounding states said, there is no way you lost Georgia. As the Georgia politicians say, there is no way you lost Georgia. Nobody. Everyone knows I won it by hundreds of thousands of votes. But I’ll tell you it’s going to have a big impact on Tuesday if you guys don’t get this thing straightened out fast.
But you’re allowed to have a phony election? You’re allowed to have a phony election, right? 
When are you going to do signature counts, when are you going to do signature verification on Fulton County, which you said you were going to do, and now all of a sudden, you’re not doing it. When are you doing that?
Well, I don’t want to know who it is. You guys can do it very confidentially. You can sign a confidentiality agreement. That’s okay. I don’t need to know names. But on this stuff that we’re talking about, we got all that information from the secretary of state. 
Well, why don’t my lawyers show you where you got the information. It will show the secretary of state, and you don’t even have to look at any names. We don’t want names. We don’t care. But we got that information from you. And Stacey Abrams is laughing about you. She’s going around saying these guys are dumber than a rock. What she’s done to this party is unbelievable, I tell you. And I only ran against her once. And that was with a guy named Brian Kemp, and I beat her. And if I didn’t run, Brian wouldn’t have had even a shot, either in the general or in the primary. He was dead, dead as a doornail. He never thought he had a shot at either one of them. What a schmuck I was. But that’s the way it is. That’s the way it is. I would like you . . . for the attorneys . . . I’d like you to perhaps meet with Ryan, ideally tomorrow, because I think we should come to a resolution of this before the election. Otherwise you’re going to have people just not voting. They don’t want to vote. They hate the state, they hate the governor, and they hate the secretary of state. I will tell you that right now. The only people that like you are people that will never vote for you. You know that, Brad, right? They like you, you know, they like you. They can’t believe what they found. They want more people like you. So, look, can you get together tomorrow? And, Brad, we just want the truth. It’s simple.
And everyone’s going to look very good if the truth comes out. It’s okay. It takes a little while, but let the truth come out. And the real truth is, I won by 400,000 votes. At least. That’s the real truth. But we don’t need 400,000 votes. We need less than 2,000 votes. And are you guys able to meet tomorrow, Ryan?
Okay, thank you, Brad. Thank you, Ryan. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much. Bye.
Thank you, everybody. Thank you.

Thank you.

Oh look at this. Boy, what a — what a response from our greatest people. Thank you very much. Thank you.

Well, at least I definitely know the military likes Trump, right? That’s great, it’s — you’re amazing people, are (ph) great people and I very much appreciate it.
And speaking of that, we will have this week over 200 admirals and generals endorsing Trump, and that to me is a fantastic honor. In addition, we had 17, now we have 19 folks Congressional Medal of Honor recipients. And to have that many is very unusual and a tremendous honor. I’ve met many of them over the last two weeks and that, to me, is just a great honor.
So I wanna thank everybody — I wanna thank everybody in this room. And it’s a privilege to be here this morning with you. So many distinguished members of our services, and that’s really what you are, very, very highly distinguished members.
Before we get started, we’re going to have a Q&A. In a little while, I’d like to address one of the most important aspects of America’s national security, and that’s cyber security. To truly make America safe, we must make cyber security a major priority, which I don’t believe we’re doing right now, for both government and the private sector.
Cyber theft is the fastest growing crime in the United States by far. As president, improving cyber security will be an immediate and top priority for my administration. One of the very first things I will do is to order a thorough review of our cyber defenses and weaknesses. We have very substantial weaknesses, including all vital infrastructures.
Cyber attacks from foreign governments, especially China, Russia, North Korea along with non-state terrorist actors and organized criminal groups constitute one of our most critical national security concerns. They’re leaning everything about us and we don’t have — wanna have any servers in the basements, by the way folks. Has anybody here…

Has anybody in this group — I know our congressmen hasn’t done it, has anybody put a server in their basement? Oh boy, Hillary Clinton’s only — Hillary Clinton’s only experience in cyber security involves her criminal scheme to violate federal law, engineering a massive cover up and putting the entire nation in harm’s way.
The fact that a former senator and secretary of state claimed not to know what the letter C means is just one more example of why she is totally unfit to hold the office of president. Totally unfit.

It’s interesting that during her FBI review, which took place on a massive holiday and which wasn’t recorded and lots of other things, that she went 39 times. She didn’t remember, she didn’t remember. She doesn’t remember anything. She remembered practically nothing. But when she has to remember something, she remembers. It’s a very sad situation, I will tell you. I’m sure the folks in this room are not thrilled.
The scope of our cybersecurity problem is enormous. Our government, our businesses, our trade secrets and our citizens’ most sensitive information are all facing constant cyberattacks and reviews (ph) by the enemy. Just consider some of these recent hacks, JPMorgan Chase, massive bank, had 73 million e-mails stolen. eBay was involved and gave up 150 million passwords. Target was attacked and gave up 40 million credit card numbers. Attacks like these are happening on a regular basis both in the United States and around the world, and the costs in terms of privacy, our security and our financial sector are truly extraordinary.
Identity theft, financial laundering, as well as ransom and ransomware — I mean, think of it — all involving extortion of a hacked institution are becoming increasingly common. They are extorting institutions. Incredibly, hackers were able to obtain at least 20 million identities of people who under FBI background and were under FBI background investigations.
The information hack contains facts discovered by the FBI in doing background checks for people seeking positions with the federal government. It’s a treasure trove which can easily be used for blackmail and other reasons by the enemy. The fact that this highly classified information of very, very important people in many cases was so poorly protected demonstrates that cybersecurity is just one more area where the Obama administration has failed.
And speaking of failure, when we do our question and answer period, you look at what’s happened with our navy in terms of the number of ships and our armed forces generally, how they are so depleted, how they are at almost record-setting lows and in some cases absolute record-setting lows, it is very, very unfortunate and very, very dangerous for our country. We should not let this be like the history of the Mafia, which was allowed to grow into a nationwide organization which infiltrated and corrupted so many areas of society for such a long period of time.
We can learn from this history, that when the Department of Justice, the FBI, the DEA and the state and local police and prosecutors were combined in a task force directed by and at the Mafia, when they looked at the Mafia and really went after them, they were able to get great great successes and prosecutions out of them and seizing their business interests, did a lot of things, including their business interests, taking them away and removing their infiltration from legitimate areas of society. They’ve been very, very effective when everybody got together. That was a long time ago.
As president, I will instruct the Department of Justice to create a joint task force throughout the United States to work together with federal, state and local law enforcement authorities and international law enforcement to crush this still-developing area of crime.
And it’s getting bigger very fast. It’s gonna be harder and harder to do. I will make certain that our military is the best in the world in both cyber offense and defense and in every other way, by the way, every other way.

We’ve rarely needed it more than we do right now.
I will also ask my secretary of Defense and Joint Chiefs to present recommendations for strengthening and augmenting our Cyber Command. As a deterrent against attacks on our critical resources, the United States must possess — and has to — the unquestioned capacity to launch crippling cyber counter attacks. And I mean crippling, crippling.
This is the warfare of the future. America’s dominance in this arena must be unquestioned. And today, it’s totally questioned. People don’t even know if we have the capability that we’re supposed to have when you look at what’s going on with other countries.
Cybersecurity is not only a question of developing defensive technologies but offensive technologies, as well. For non-state terror actors, the United States must develop the ability, no matter how difficult, to track down and incapacitate those responsible and do it rapidly.
We should turn cyber warfare into one of our greatest weapons against the terrorists. And they have to know its coming because right now, they know nothing about us. It just seems they have an open blanket. It’s like an open mark, do whatever you wanna do, nothing’s gonna happen. Take our youth out of the country, infiltrate our country in so many different ways.
We can’t let this happen. We have to have it stopped immediately before it’s too late.

To enhance the defense of the other agencies of government, including our law enforcement agencies — so important, they’re doing such a great job, by the way — we will put together a team of our best military, civilian and private sector cybersecurity experts to comprehensively review all of our cybersecurity systems and technologies.
The cyber review team will proceed with the most sensitive systems first, but ultimately all systems will be analyzed and made as secure as modern technology permits. And hopefully, that’s gonna be our technology.
We will also require that follow-up reviews take place on a regular basis determined by the sensitive nature of the security involved. The review will be very much exact and recommended by experts. We want experts, our finest people. We don’t want people that are B level, C level, D level. We have to get our absolute best and the recommendations have to be a combination of defensive technologies tailored to specific agencies and every other discipline involved.
This will include the various methods of internal monitoring, attack and penetration, investigation of suspected hackers or rogue employees — and you have plenty of rogue employees — and identity protection for government employees. The review team will also remain current on the constantly evolving new methods of attack and will attempt to anticipate them and develop defenses as often as possible before breaches occur.
And there are ways of doing this through modern technology, but we are not using that, and frankly, our technology is not up to date. We’re letting it slip by. And with technology, as we know, it can go very, very rapidly. This group of experts will set up protocols for each agency and government officials, requiring them to follow best and strongest practices.
They will also establish a training program for all government employees to make certain that they understand what defenses are available and utilize them, along with a continuing education program so everyone is aware of the newest methods of both attack and defense. That means attack and defense.
Those who violate classification rules will be held responsible to the fullest extent of the law, something which we don’t do too much anymore.

You know, in our country lately, we’re more interested in protecting the criminals than we are in making sure that we’re strong and powerful and know what we’re doing. We’re so, so interested in protecting criminals and people that want to do us harm and I think we have to go back to a little more old-fashioned method of thinking, if that makes sense.
I will appoint an attorney general who will reform the Department of Justice like it was necessary after Watergate. My attorney general will restore the integrity of the Department of Justice, which has been severely questioned. Today is just…

Frankly, nobody’s every seen anything like what’s happening today. When you have somebody getting a subpoena from the United States Congress to have your e-mails and all other information sent, and after — not before, after getting the subpoena, 33,000 e-mails are deleted and acid washed. And nobody even knows what that means, acid wash. It’s a very expensive thing to do. Most people don’t even know what it means.
When you see something like that, and there’s no crime, everything’s just wonderful. You know, if you were in a private case with Mr. Smith and they call for your records and you get rid of your records so blatantly as this, you have serious consequences. Like, the most serious consequences. The congressman sends out a tremendous subpoena, they want to see the e-mails, and they delete the e-mails. I can’t think of anything, in terms of we’re talking about, much more serious than that.
Congressman, do you agree? It’s hard to believe. Hard to believe that they can get away with this kind of thing.
Today is just to the beginning of a long and overdue national discussion on how to protect ourselves from modern cyber crime and evolving national security threats and how to develop the cyber offense strategies necessary to gain a critical security edge in the 21st century. We need the edge, and ideally, a big one.
I want to thank everybody in this room. I have such respect for the people in this room for being here, and now let’s begin our discussion. Thank you very much, folks. Thank you.

(UNKNOWN): Mr. Trump, thank you so much for joining us today and I know you are busy traveling but I want to thank you for taking the opportunity to have a conversation with these American warriors (ph) and I first want to thank General Vernon Lewis whose idea was to pull all of these leaders together. We want to thank him for his leadership.

Before we begin, Mr. Trump, I just want to kind of give you an overview of who’s in this room. We have gathered here warriors from across America who have fought and defended America and the ideals upon which America is founded in every conflict and war since World War II. They are in this room here today. They have retired and hung up their uniforms but they have not retired from their defending of their oath and that is to defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies foreign and domestic.
And they are here today in service to their country.

So, with that understanding that you have a room full of warriors who are ready to report for duty to defend this country, we want to begin with our questions and General Boykin will recognize our first general to ask a question.

Our first speaker probably has seen more combat than anybody else in the room here because he’s fought in three wars. It’s General Frederick or Fritz Kroesen. He was in World War II, Korea, as well as Vietnam. He commanded everything from the company to the corps level and ultimately earned three Purple Hearts and three Combat Infantry Badges. He is — he had three four-star jobs, he was commanding general of the forces command, the vice chief of staff for the Army, and the commander in chief of the United States Army Europe.
General Kroesen, your question, sir. 

Mr. Trump, I only speak for the Army. It’s not because I ignore the needs of the Air Force and the Navy but — and I accept everything you have said about the cyber threat to us but my question has to do with the United States Army which has been too small ever since the Cold War ended and we paid the peace dividend out of the defense budget and the Army has been too small ever since.
When we were committed into Iraq and Afghanistan and the chief of staff of the Army was asked how many troops he was going to need to finish that war and he said “about 300,000” he was made a pariah and no one asked for his advice and counsel for the rest of his tour duty.
We’ve been using that army for the last 15 years and it’s the first time we ever went to war without expanding the size of the army. Instead of that, they hired 200,000 civilian contractors to do the work that the Army wasn’t big enough to do. Now we have an Army that’s being worn out. We are losing experienced soldiers who are being left — being dismissed from the Army in order to bring the size down even more.

Well, General, thank you. And thank you for your bravery, amazing. I’ve heard your name mentioned many times, so thank you for being here and thank you for the question.
Not only the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marines, everything is going away at a time when certainly we are at a top priority for making sure that doesn’t happen. We’re not respected to the extent that we were. And if we keep going like this, we won’t be respected at all.
You look at Russia’s doing with their nuclear capability and the newness of their capability, and look at we’re — what we’re doing, and nobody wants to do that with respect to nukes because nukes are horrible. But you have countries that are going out of their way to do things that we’re not doing. And we have to be very, very careful.
The size of the Army, absolutely it’s getting too small. In fact a certain general, when he left about a year and a half ago said we are not only too small, we’re the least prepared that we’ve ever been since he can remember — the least prepared. So, it’s a combination of that — of both.
Look, I feel so strongly that I use a different word in going around that our forces are depleted — they’re depleted. We have the greatest people on Earth, but they’re depleted.
You see where the fighter jets are so old that they can’t get parts anymore. They have to go to plane — airplane graveyards and museums to get parts for our fighter jets that we’re currently using. They don’t make the parts. And you have other countries that have brand new equipment. And in some cases, we sell them the equipment. The whole thing is ridiculous.
Now, we’re gonna build up our forces, including the Army. But we are gonna build up our forces. We have no choice.
You know, they can talk about sequester, they can talk about all of the different things that they’ve — they’re doing. But this isn’t like we have a choice. This is something where — and we’re gonna be cutting elements of government certainly. But when it comes to the military, we have no choice. We cannot have a depleted military. We have to have the strongest military by far. And with that being said, as you know, we spend a lot of money on protecting other countries. And yet, those other countries aren’t paying nearly what it costs us for that protection. Where — they’re getting one of the great bargains of all time.
But we’re spending on numerous countries, very substantial countries. You know the countries we’re talking about. But we’re defending them for a fraction of the cost.
We have to go to those countries and we have to ask them to make contributions that are greater than the contributions they’re making right now. You know, we’re gonna protect them. We’re gonna remain loyal to them. But at the same time, it’s a two-way street. They have to help us also.
So I think your question is a great one. We will build our military forces to a level that will be, I believe, stronger than ever before if I become president of the United States.
OK? Thank you.

The Obama administration has yet to develop a strategy for dealing with the global jihad movement. The terrorists are motivated by theology that drives them to atrocities against non-believers, be they Christians, Jews or other faiths. Americans have not been allowed to know the enemy or call them by name. We need a strategy, not a tactical plan.
What is your plan to defeat radical Islam? And how will you reverse the strategic confusion of the Obama era?
Well, it is confusion not only there, but it’s confusion in many other fields long beyond military and defense. The country’s confused in terms of even the divide in our country. We have such a divide and really divides, we have many different forms of divides. So there’s a lot of confusion.
But we have a president that won’t use the term radical Islamic terrorism, won’t use it. Will spend long periods of time explaining to people why he won’t use it. At the end of the explanation, nobody knows why he still won’t use it because the explanation is no good. And I mean, honestly we have a president that in my opinion really doesn’t know what he’s doing. We have a president that doesn’t know what’s happening, and when it comes to the military, you know, I always say, keep the oil. I said don’t go in, but I said keep the oil. Had we kept the oil, you wouldn’t have ISIS, because they fuel their growth with the oil.
But I read something and saw something over the weekend that really bothered me because I believe in — I’m a big fan of General Douglas MacArthur and General George Patton, and you know, these great generals, some of the generals — big fan of some of the generals in this room. We have — General Flynn is with us and General Kellogg. We have a few generals that have been so incredible to me. Now we have 200. But generals and admirals. I’m never gonna forget admirals, right? Those admirals (ph). I will never forget the admirals. That I can promise you.
But it was very disconcerting when I saw that an attack is planned on Mosul, an attack is planned. And you know, we’re involved in the attack, but the Iraqi forces are planning an attack on Mosul. It should happen over a short period of time and the work will be — why do we have to talk about it? Why? I never saw anything like this. Every time we are going to attack somebody, we explain. We’re going to attack, we’ll be attacking at three, noon on March 25th.
I don’t know, unless you disagree with me, wouldn’t it be better if we were going to go after Mosul to not say anything and do it, as opposed to announcing — they’re announcing all over television they’re planning to attack Mosul.

And whenever they asked me the question about what are you going to do about ISIS, I say, you know, I have a real chance of winning. I don’t really want to tell you. I have very strong ideas and I’ll be dealing with the people in this room and other folks that are, you know, very good at this, but the last thing you want to do is give notice to the enemy. When President Obama announced that he was leaving Iraq, I mean, he was talking about dates and times and what we’re going to do.
The enemy pulls back. We think we’re doing well. Well, they pull back. They’re not stupid. And then after we leave, you see what happened. So I just — I just want to say that we are going to hit ISIS hard, and I mean really hard, but I do think this. The American public doesn’t have to know the date and hour and second that we’re going to attack and from what side we’re going to attack. We’re going to attack from the eastern quadrant and it’ll take place on a certain day, at a certain hour.
We don’t need to — they just want to see victory. We don’t have victory. I mean, we’re dropping our — we’re dropping things all over the place. Who knows what they’re hitting. Who knows how many people are being killed and who knows if they’re the right people.
But at some point, we have to stop a force that’s going out and drowning people in steel cages and chopping off heads. These are barbaric people. These are people that — you know, I used to study medieval times, and you know, they chopped off heads. But until recently, this was a phenomena that you wouldn’t see, the level of barbarism is unbelievable.
So we’re gonna stop them, we’re gonna stop them cold. We’re gonna stop them very powerfully. But I don’t think all of us should be — unless it’s a very confined room, we shouldn’t be giving up our plans and it bothers me every time I see where we’re planning to attack this one, that one.
But the one I saw over the weekend was Mosul and they’re talking about attacking. The other problem is, you have a lot of the leaders in Mosul. Well, they’re not gonna be there, they’re getting out because they hear they’re gonna be attacked, so they’re getting out, they’re going some place (ph).
Congressman, would you agree with this? If I’m a leader and I’m seeing and I’m watching what everybody else is watching and an attack on Mosul is imminent, I’m saying bye folks, have a good time I’m moving into a different city.

So what are they doing? Can there be allowed — are we allowed to have any more in the military, General, the element of surprise? You know, I would think it would be a good thing. It’s called an ancient strength and we don’t use it anymore.

And I don’t pretend to be a general or an admiral or anything else, but I just — every time I see — I see President Obama get up, “Ladies and gentleman, we are sending 50 people to Iraq,” 50.
So that’s bad in two ways. Number one, it’s such a low number that the enemy’s saying is that all?

And number two, when you think 50, those people now have a target on their back. They wanna find those 50 people and they look for those 50 people.
When Hillary Clinton says no boots on the ground, now, whether you want boots on the ground or not you shouldn’t say it because you’ve just taken — so she said there will be no boots on the ground, she’s very strong (ph) because politics, you know, it sounds a little bit better to say no boots on the ground.
But by doing that, she has empowered the enemy, she’s empowered the enemy. And I think she possibly means it, I’m not sure if she means it or not. But she says no boots on the ground. She has taken a tremendous — I mean, that’s really giving strength to the enemy. And even if she felt that, she should never admit that. She should never admit that. You have to leave all your options open. And if you don’t leave your options open, you’re a fool. And I hated to hear her say that.

To summarize, you’re not going to send a message about date and time, but you are going to send a message that their days are numbered?
Their days — their days will be numbered very quickly.

I will never.

don’t have the courage to do that.

The Department of Veterans Affairs has a horrible record of taking care of veterans. As you recall, there was a — there were lengthy lines at V.A. hospitals, substandard medical care and falsified medical records and accounting. Leadership changes and new unrealistic laws have failed to correct the problems.
The V.A. is the most — probably the most ineffective bureaucracy in all of Washington and it is time for drastic action. The question is, with the near daily revelations that the U.S. Department of Veteran’s Affairs fails veterans in some form or another, what is your plan to reform and fix the system to ensure veterans can have timely access and quality care for health care services?
OK. So first of all, I want to ask you one question. You had all those aircraft landings on the carriers, right? So can an otherwise excellent pilot, a very, very good pilot, because I’ve heard that some just can’t do this. What percentage of very, very good pilots cannot land on an aircraft carrier with training?

After training.

Because I understand it’s a very, very special talent.

OK. Very good. See, he puts it down a little bit. That’s very good.

That’s very good. I’ve heard it’s very, very tough.
The Veteran’s Administration is a disaster, the V.A., it’s a disaster. I have gone to all over the country and I’ve met so many veterans and I have tremendous veteran support. And I see what those people are going through. To see a doctor, sometimes it takes six and seven days and then you finally get there and the doctor is gone on vacation.
We have to change that whole system. It starts with management. We have to have a whole different set of protocols. And we have to get people off the lines. You know, people are dying, not only the 22 suicides a day which is inconceivable when you hear that. When I first heard that I said, no you mean a month. I mean, can you imagine a day, 22 suicides a day? A lot of the suicide is people can’t get to see doctors, a lot of it because the waits are so long. That’s an administrative problem.
And by the way, the V.A. has some great doctors. I’ve been told by some of the veterans the doctors are great when you can get to see them in many cases.
So we have a plan and it’s been put out on my website and people love it. If you’re going to have a wait of six days, five days, two days, one day, we’re going to give our great veterans the right to go out, go across the street to a private doctor or a private hospital or a public hospital, whatever happens to be in that community, without having to drive 400 miles to another hospital.
And we’re going to give them the right to see their private doctor, get taken care of it, perhaps the private or public hospital. Get taken care of quickly, effectively and go about their business. And the government, we are going to pay the bill. That will totally reduce all of the waiting times, all of the problems. And I think it may actually get the V.A. to respond better to things because, you know, there is a little competition you would think.
But it’s not like we have a choice. We can’t let what’s happening happen. I mean, I’ve heard stories that are so horrible. I mean, people are killing themselves while they’re waiting on line because they can’t — you know, they know it’s days and days before they can have what could be a simple procedure, what could be a simple prescription.
They have to wait so long that they end up — they can’t take it. They can’t take it. So we’re going to establish a procedure where people can leave the line, go outside, take care of themselves and the government’s gonna pay.
And by the way, that’s a far less expensive solution than other very foolish solutions I’ve heard. The veterans love it, they love it. But it’s a far better solution than anything anybody’s heard and its common sense and it’s there.
And the doctors need the business and the private hospitals and public hospitals need the business and they’re sitting there, waiting. So we don’t have a choice. We have to do that. OK? Thank you.

We’re gonna transition to another set of issues, one that really has become a hallmark of your campaign. And that is, challenging the area of political correctness, Colonel Don Barfamu (ph) was an adjutant general officer and former covenant of the Army A.G. School. He is a decorated combat veteran and he has our next question.
Colonel.

The military has become an institutional for social experiments and as a result, the military’s undergone a number of changes through regulations with regard to women in combat, transgender rights and other issues.
None of these P.C. actions were combat effective or readiness driven. In fact, the opposite is happening. Deploy ability, readiness and moral are all adversely effective — affected. So my question to you is, what will you do about the social engineering and political correctness that’s been imposed upon our military?
Well, we’re gonna get away from political correctness and we’re gonna have to do that, and…

Like the whole concept of profiling, you know, I mentioned the other day profiling, everyone goes, profile and profiling. Well, profiling is you know, in Israel they’re doing it and they’re doing it well.
And we may have to do that, and we may have to do other things. But you’re right, we have a politically correct military and it’s getting more and more politically correct every day. And a lot of the great people in this room don’t even understand how it’s possible to do that.
And that’s through intelligence, not through ignorance, believe me. Because some of the things that they’re asking you to do and be politically correct about are ridiculous.
I will say I would leave many of the decisions of some of the things you mentioned to the generals, the admirals, the people on top, and we get some of the — the Congressmen just mentioned to me and I — I think it’s true 100 percent, you get your top enlisted people in that and you have some discussions with some of these top enlisted people who know it better than probably anybody.
But we get our military people to come back and make recommendations to me and I will follow those recommendations. I will follow them very strongly.

Ron is a highly decorated Army chaplain. He’s been deployed several times into combat areas in several different locations. He has personally witnessed the attacks on religious freedoms in the military. After 28 years of service, he now heads the Chaplains’ Alliance for Military Religious Liberty. He works closely with the House and the Senate Armed Services Committees to protect these religious liberties.
Chaplain Crews?

Any relation to Ted Cruz?

And Tom Cruise?

OK now you can take the question.

Navy Chaplain Wes Modder, who is present today, was detached for cause and threatened with separation for using biblical answers to questions during pastoral counseling sessions with sailors in his command.
Air Force Senior Master Sergeant Phil Monk was relieved of duty when his lesbian commander tried and failed to force him to vocally voice his open support for her personal views on marriage.
Decorated veteran and retired Air Force Sergeant Oscar Rodriguez was forcefully removed from a friend’s retirement ceremony because he intended to use the word “God” in that retirement ceremony.
Marine Lance Corporal Monifa Sterling was convicted at a court martial for failing to remove Scripture from her personal workspace.
Today commanders are prohibited from having Bibles on their desk or using Scriptures while they’re counseling troops. The Obama administration has deliberately set out to take the Christian religion out of the military.
Mr. Trump, how will you in your administration combat these attacks on military religious freedom of expression?
Well, thank you, that’s a great question. And have we ever had a time like this? Have we ever — has there ever been a thing like what’s going on? The other day just to add to your list, I was watching one of the news programs and they had a — I think high school football coach, you know they’re going into battle…

Is he here? Oh stand up. Wow.

They really went after him.

For saying a prayer before the — that is just — I didn’t know you’d be here.

Wow. The world is changing isn’t it? So you’re not allowed to pray before a football game. I thought it was horrible. I thought it was horrible. So what did they do to you? What happened? Sorry to take away from your question but it’s sort of an extension of your question. What did they do?

I think that is absolutely outrageous. I think it’s outrageous.

I think it’s very, very sad and outrageous. Religious liberty, hey, it’s about religious liberty. And there has to be a melding of both. We’re living in a time where you have to have a melding of both. But it’s very unfair what they’re doing to religion in this country.
And you know one of the things that I’m doing and I’m — we have the Johnson Amendment. You know what that is. That Lyndon Johnson in the 1950s passed an amendment because supposedly he was having a hard time with a church in Houston, with a pastor. And he passed an amendment saying basically if you’re a pastor, if you’re a religious person, you cannot get up and talk politics. You can’t really, here’s a prime example of it. You know how strongly I feel about it.
And I had 50 pastors, ministers, I had priests, I had a couple of rabbis in a big conference room in one of my buildings. And we’re talking and I could see they really liked me. But I could also see they couldn’t endorse me.
And I said, “Just out of curiosity, why?”
“Well, we can’t do it because we’ll lose our tax-exempt status.”
I said, “Why is that? In other words, you’re taking away your freedom of speech. And they started telling me about the Johnson Amendment which really was the first time — and I started studying it and we had a meeting a month later and I said, “We’re gonna get rid of the Johnson Amendment because they’re stopping you and our great people from talking.”

And Tony and all the people, I mean these are the people we have to hear from and we wanna hear from them. And you don’t mind opposing views but they’re stopping you from speaking. And actually, your opposing views are able to speak because they don’t have to worry about tax exempt status and things. So I think it’s very unfair.
And one of the things I will do very early in my administration is to get rid of the Johnson Amendment so that our great pastors and ministers and rabbis and — and everybody — and priests and everybody can go and tell and can participate in the process.
I actually looked at 50 people in the room, they’re strong people, powerful people by personality and I said they’re really holding your voice back. So you have these powerful people, some were incredible speakers, just a natural gift for speaking.
And I pointed down, way down on the street on 5th avenue, I said so those people walking along the street have more power than you do? And I think that’s very unfair. You should be able to speak. And I think that we’ll go a long way to addressing the problem that you had but you have lost a lot of the — the — its amazing, the church and religion has lost tremendous power and positive power.
This isn’t negative power, this is positive power by the fact that they are essentially prohibited from speaking because of the tremendous problem they have. So one of the things I’m gonna do and I have tremendous support with the evangelicals and with the Christians and with everybody, is we’re going to get rid of the Johnson Amendment that is very, very unfair, OK?

And that was in a large part because of the visibility you’re given to that issue, in fact insisting that it be in the GOP platform, the repeal of that, as well. So we thank you for speaking out…
(CROSSTALK)
I’m very honored by that, yeah they did it last week so that’s the beginning of my process.

That’s on the assumption I win. If I don’t win you just wasted because that’s never happening, folks.

You’ve wasted a lot of time and energy and money.

And the IRS can be on standby, my sermon is on the way to the IRS now so that they can evaluate it. And — and we’ll see what happens at that point but it’s time that churches and Christians have the freedom to speak in this country about what is affecting this country.

Why is your sermon on the way, did they ask you for it?

OK good, but that is a terrible situation, isn’t it? Where they can say we don’t like the way you’re speaking about Christianity, about God. We don’t like what you just said and we’re gonna take away your tax exempt status which you know how important it is.
It’s very, very — it’s a very sad thing.

No that’s what I’m talking about. We wanna get their advice also, believe me.

And our — our final question — I do wanna thank you again for being so generous with your time and having this conversation with these military warriors. I want to go back to something you spoke about earlier in relationship to the V.A. but also about the well- being of our warriors.
You know a nation is judged by how it takes care of its warriors. Those who have defended our ideals and our principles and have been willing to put themselves in harm’s way. And this is not unconnected with the conversation we were just having. Because it is that Christian ethic that even Jesus talked about, “Greater love hath no man than to lay down his life for his friends.”
And many in this room have been willing to do so. But they have seen their friends make the ultimate sacrifice. And that is — that is a burden that they carry. And it is a difficulty that they face. And we should not require them to face that alone as a nation.
And so our final question comes from Staff Sergeant Chad Robichaux. Sergeant Robichaux is a former Special Operations Force Recon Marine. That is the toughest of the tough in the USMC. He was deployed eight times to combat. He suffered and has fully recovered from depression and PTSD. He has been there, done that.
He now heads the Mighty Oaks Warrior Program that serves active duty veterans and their families in the most statistically successful such program of its kind in the country.
Staff Sergeant Robichaux.

Spiritual fitness works on these types of problems. The government is not taking advantage of these programs and services. So my question for you is, when you become president, will you support and fund a more holistic approach to solve the problems and issues of veteran suicide, PTSD, TBI and other related military mental and behavioral health issues and will you take steps to restore the historic role of our Chaplains and the importance of spiritual fitness and spiritual resiliency programs?
Yes I would. Look we need that so badly and when you…

When you talk about the mental health problems, when people come back from war and combat and they see things that maybe a lot of the folks in this room have seen many times over and you’re strong and you can handle it. But a lot of people can’t handle it. And they see horror stories. They see events that you couldn’t see in a movie, nobody would believe it.
Now we need a mental health help and medical. And it’s one of the things that I think is least addressed and is one of the things that — like your question — one of the things that I hear the most about when I go around and talk to the veterans. So we’re going to have a very, very robust, level of performance having to do with mental health. We are losing so many great people that can be taken care of if they have proper care.
You know when you hear the 22 suicides a day it’s a big part of your question. But when you hear the 22 suicides a day that should never be. That should never be. So we’re going to be addressing that very strongly and the whole mental health issue is going to be a very important issue when I take over and the V.A. is going to be fixed in so many ways but that’s going to be one of the ways we’re going to help.
And that’s in many respects going to be the number one thing we have to do. Because I think it’s really been left behind. OK? Thank you very much.

That’s true.

I do want that. I actually like that, I think — I mean who else should I be listening to but the people in this room?

Obviously, we believe that some of your key employments will be the military leadership, civilian and in uniform.
I agree 100 percent, General.

You can see the years that they have devoted to the principles and ideals that made America great. But they’re here reporting for duty again. They realize that a lot is on the line for our country.
And so as you sit here before them this morning before you depart, what would be your final words to them as they go back to their respective parts of the country? Well, Tony, thank you very much and I will say this. Just as the General said I’m beholding to nobody, I’ve spent you know, tens and tens of millions of dollars on the campaign. I am going to spending a lot more over the next month. In addition, we’ve raised a lot of money from small people that — people that give small donations, people that wanna be a part of it and they’ve been very much left behind.
We call them the forgotten man and woman. And we’ve raised millions of — more than any Republican ever thought possible and you know, you’ve heard $28 million one month and $41 million and that these are in small, $61 average donations approximately.
And we’ve very proud of that but the truth is I am beholden to no one, nobody’s gonna tell me what to do, no — no group that owns a military firm that gives military supplies. Because I know — I’ve heard the case where often times you wanna buy certain weapons or something and you like one but you get the other one because that one has a contact to our politicians.
Those days are over, those days are over. You’re gonna get the best — you’re gonna get the best equipment.

You’re gonna get what’s good, you’re gonna get what the generals and what the admirals and what — and the enlisted and they’ll — we’ll get together, we wanna get the right stuff. But the truth is, that the people in this room and your representatives all over this country, the military people are so important to our country.
Without you, we wouldn’t be here. I don’t think you’ve been given the respect that you deserve. I don’t think you’ve been allowed to fight ISIS as an example the way you wanted. I don’t think you’ve been allowed to fight for Iraq the way you’ve wanted.
If they listen to the military people, we probably wouldn’t be having an ISIS right now. I think I can say not probably, I think we definitely wouldn’t be having an ISIS right now.
But we’re running a war by politicians and we’re running a war by political correctness as per that question. I can only tell you this and I used to speak about it all the time, we have a Navy that hasn’t been in this position since World War I.
We have an Army that hasn’t been in this position since World War II, in terms of levels and in terms of readiness and in terms of everything else. We are not capable like we have to be.
This will be one of my most important elements. When I talk cost cutting, I do for so many different departments where the money is pouring and they don’t even know what to do with it. But when it comes to the military we have to enhance our military. It’s depleted. That’s the word I tend to use. It’s a depleted — we have a very depleted military.
We have great people, we have a depleted military. I told you about the jet fighters. Well it’s like that with so many other things. So we are going to take care of our military. We’re going to take care of our military — the people in our military, the finest people we have.
We are going to take care of our law enforcement because in some ways that’s going hand in hand now more and more when you see what’s going on. And the people that we’re allowing into our country, we are allowing people into our country that are going to cause us tremendous problems. This isn’t a question of will it happen; this a question of when.
Where people coming into our country who are going to cause you and our law enforcement tremendous problems and therefore our society in the future. Because we have politicians that should be ashamed of themselves. So I can only say this, a very, very important element of any country, but our country, and in my opinion, the single most important thing that a president can do is the defense of our country.
I mean we can talk all of the elements. We can talk about Medicare and Medicaid and Social Security. We can talk about school, we can talk about everything. Defense is number one or we don’t have a country.

Our military and the strength of our military and the strengthening of our military is a number one priority for the Trump administration. And the world’s going to respect us again and they don’t now. A lot of that has to do with the leader. And a lot of it has to do with leadership. But our country is going to be respected again and we are going to make America great again.
Thank you all very much. 
